THE week after Taffimai Metallumai (we will still call her Taffy,

Best Beloved) made that little mistake about her Daddy’s spear and the

Stranger-man and the picture-letter and all, she went carp-fishing again

with her Daddy. Her Mummy wanted her to stay at home and help hang up

hides to dry on the big drying-poles outside their Neolithic Cave,

but Taffy slipped away down to her Daddy quite early, and they fished.

Presently she began to giggle, and her Daddy said, ‘Don’t be silly,

child.’



‘But wasn’t it inciting!’ said Taffy. ‘Don’t you remember how the Head

Chief puffed out his cheeks, and how funny the nice Stranger-man looked

with the mud in his hair?’



‘Well do I,’ said Tegumai. ‘I had to pay two deerskins--soft ones with

fringes--to the Stranger-man for the things we did to him.’



‘We didn’t do anything,’ said Taffy. ‘It was Mummy and the other

Neolithic ladies--and the mud.’



‘We won’t talk about that,’ said her Daddy, ‘Let’s have lunch.’



Taffy took a marrow-bone and sat mousy-quiet for ten whole minutes,

while her Daddy scratched on pieces of birch-bark with a shark’s tooth.

Then she said, ‘Daddy, I’ve thinked of a secret surprise. You make a

noise--any sort of noise.’



‘Ah!’ said Tegumai. ‘Will that do to begin with?’



‘Yes,’ said Taffy. ‘You look just like a carp-fish with its mouth open.

Say it again, please.’



‘Ah! ah! ah!’ said her Daddy. ‘Don’t be rude, my daughter.’



‘I’m not meaning rude, really and truly,’ said Taffy. ‘It’s part of my

secret-surprise-think. Do say ah, Daddy, and keep your mouth open at

the end, and lend me that tooth. I’m going to draw a carp-fish’s mouth

wide-open.’



‘What for?’ said her Daddy.



‘Don’t you see?’ said Taffy, scratching away on the bark. ‘That will be

our little secret s’prise. When I draw a carp-fish with his mouth open

in the smoke at the back of our Cave--if Mummy doesn’t mind--it will

remind you of that ah-noise. Then we can play that it was me jumped

out of the dark and s’prised you with that noise--same as I did in the

beaver-swamp last winter.’



‘Really?’ said her Daddy, in the voice that grown-ups use when they are

truly attending. ‘Go on, Taffy.’



‘Oh bother!’ she said. ‘I can’t draw all of a carp-fish, but I can draw

something that means a carp-fish’s mouth. Don’t you know how they stand

on their heads rooting in the mud? Well, here’s a pretence carp-fish (we

can play that the rest of him is drawn). Here’s just his mouth, and that

means ah.’ And she drew this. (1.)



‘That’s not bad,’ said Tegumai, and scratched on his own piece of bark

for himself; but you’ve forgotten the feeler that hangs across his

mouth.’



‘But I can’t draw, Daddy.’



‘You needn’t draw anything of him except just the opening of his mouth

and the feeler across. Then we’ll know he’s a carp-fish, ‘cause the

perches and trouts haven’t got feelers. Look here, Taffy.’ And he drew

this. (2.)



‘Now I’ll copy it.’ said Taffy. ‘Will you understand this when you see

it?’



‘Perfectly,’ said her Daddy.



And she drew this. (3.) ‘And I’ll be quite as s’prised when I see it

anywhere, as if you had jumped out from behind a tree and said ‘“Ah!”’



‘Now, make another noise,’ said Taffy, very proud.



‘Yah!’ said her Daddy, very loud.



‘H’m,’ said Taffy. ‘That’s a mixy noise. The end part is

ah-carp-fish-mouth; but what can we do about the front part? Yer-yer-yer

and ah! Ya!’



‘It’s very like the carp-fish-mouth noise. Let’s draw another bit of the

carp-fish and join ‘em,’ said her Daddy. He was quite incited too.



‘No. If they’re joined, I’ll forget. Draw it separate. Draw his tail.

If he’s standing on his head the tail will come first. ‘Sides, I think I

can draw tails easiest,’ said Taffy.



‘A good notion,’ said Tegumai. ‘Here’s a carp-fish tail for the

yer-noise.’ And he drew this. (4.)



‘I’ll try now,’ said Taffy. ‘’Member I can’t draw like you, Daddy. Will

it do if I just draw the split part of the tail, and the sticky-down

line for where it joins?’ And she drew this. (5.)



Her Daddy nodded, and his eyes were shiny bright with ‘citement.



‘That’s beautiful,’ she said. ‘Now make another noise, Daddy.’



‘Oh!’ said her Daddy, very loud.



‘That’s quite easy,’ said Taffy. ‘You make your mouth all around like an

egg or a stone. So an egg or a stone will do for that.’



‘You can’t always find eggs or stones. We’ll have to scratch a round

something like one.’ And he drew this. (6.)



‘My gracious!’ said Taffy, ‘what a lot of noise-pictures we’ve

made,--carp-mouth, carp-tail, and egg! Now, make another noise, Daddy.’



‘Ssh!’ said her Daddy, and frowned to himself, but Taffy was too incited

to notice.



‘That’s quite easy,’ she said, scratching on the bark.



‘Eh, what?’ said her Daddy. ‘I meant I was thinking, and didn’t want to

be disturbed.’



‘It’s a noise just the same. It’s the noise a snake makes, Daddy,

when it is thinking and doesn’t want to be disturbed. Let’s make the

ssh-noise a snake. Will this do?’ And she drew this. (7.)



‘There,’ she said. ‘That’s another s’prise-secret. When you draw a

hissy-snake by the door of your little back-cave where you mend

the spears, I’ll know you’re thinking hard; and I’ll come in most

mousy-quiet. And if you draw it on a tree by the river when you are

fishing, I’ll know you want me to walk most most mousy-quiet, so as not

to shake the banks.’



‘Perfectly true,’ said Tegumai. And there’s more in this game than you

think. Taffy, dear, I’ve a notion that your Daddy’s daughter has hit

upon the finest thing that there ever was since the Tribe of Tegumai

took to using shark’s teeth instead of flints for their spear-heads. I

believe we’ve found out the big secret of the world.’



‘Why?’ said Taffy, and her eyes shone too with incitement.



‘I’ll show,’ said her Daddy. ‘What’s water in the Tegumai language?’



‘Ya, of course, and it means river too--like Wagai-ya--the Wagai river.’



‘What is bad water that gives you fever if you drink it--black

water--swamp-water?’



‘Yo, of course.’



‘Now look,’ said her Daddy. ‘S’pose you saw this scratched by the side

of a pool in the beaver-swamp?’ And he drew this. (8.)



‘Carp-tail and round egg. Two noises mixed! Yo, bad water,’ said Taffy.

‘’Course I wouldn’t drink that water because I’d know you said it was

bad.’



‘But I needn’t be near the water at all. I might be miles away, hunting,

and still--’



‘And still it would be just the same as if you stood there and said,

“G’way, Taffy, or you’ll get fever.” All that in a carp-fish-tail and

a round egg! O Daddy, we must tell Mummy, quick!’ and Taffy danced all

round him.



‘Not yet,’ said Tegumai; ‘not till we’ve gone a little further. Let’s

see. Yo is bad water, but So is food cooked on the fire, isn’t it?’ And

he drew this. (9.)



‘Yes. Snake and egg,’ said Taffy ‘So that means dinner’s ready. If you

saw that scratched on a tree you’d know it was time to come to the Cave.

So’d I.’



‘My Winkie!’ said Tegumai. ‘That’s true too. But wait a minute. I see

a difficulty. SO means “come and have dinner,” but sho means the

drying-poles where we hang our hides.’



‘Horrid old drying-poles!’ said Taffy. ‘I hate helping to hang heavy,

hot, hairy hides on them. If you drew the snake and egg, and I thought

it meant dinner, and I came in from the wood and found that it meant I

was to help Mummy hang the two hides on the drying-poles, what would I

do?’



‘You’d be cross. So’d Mummy. We must make a new picture for sho. We must

draw a spotty snake that hisses sh-sh, and we’ll play that the plain

snake only hisses ssss.’



‘I couldn’t be sure how to put in the spots,’ said Taffy. ‘And p’raps

if you were in a hurry you might leave them out, and I’d think it was

so when it was sho, and then Mummy would catch me just the same. No! I

think we’d better draw a picture of the horrid high drying-poles their

very selves, and make quite sure. I’ll put them in just after the

hissy-snake. Look!’ And she drew this. (10.)



‘P’raps that’s safest. It’s very like our drying-poles, anyhow,’

said her Daddy, laughing. ‘Now I’ll make a new noise with a snake and

drying-pole sound in it. I’ll say shi. That’s Tegumai for spear, Taffy.’

And he laughed.



‘Don’t make fun of me,’ said Taffy, as she thought of her picture-letter

and the mud in the Stranger-man’s hair. ‘You draw it, Daddy.’



‘We won’t have beavers or hills this time, eh?’ said her Daddy, ‘I’ll

just draw a straight line for my spear.’ and he drew this. (11.)



‘Even Mummy couldn’t mistake that for me being killed.’



‘Please don’t, Daddy. It makes me uncomfy. Do some more noises. We’re

getting on beautifully.’



‘Er-hm!’ said Tegumai, looking up. ‘We’ll say shu. That means sky.’



Taffy drew the snake and the drying-pole. Then she stopped. ‘We must

make a new picture for that end sound, mustn’t we?’



‘Shu-shu-u-u-u!’ said her Daddy. ‘Why, it’s just like the

round-egg-sound made thin.’



‘Then s’pose we draw a thin round egg, and pretend it’s a frog that

hasn’t eaten anything for years.’



‘N-no,’ said her Daddy. ‘If we drew that in a hurry we might mistake it

for the round egg itself. Shu-shu-shu! ‘I tell you what we’ll do. We’ll

open a little hole at the end of the round egg to show how the O-noise

runs out all thin, ooo-oo-oo. Like this.’ And he drew this. (12.)



‘Oh, that’s lovely! Much better than a thin frog. Go on,’ said Taffy,

using her shark’s tooth. Her Daddy went on drawing, and his hand shook

with incitement. He went on till he had drawn this. (13.)



‘Don’t look up, Taffy,’ he said. ‘Try if you can make out what that

means in the Tegumai language. If you can, we’ve found the Secret.’



‘Snake--pole--broken--egg--carp--tail and carp-mouth,’ said Taffy.

‘Shu-ya. Sky-water (rain).’ Just then a drop fell on her hand, for the

day had clouded over. ‘Why, Daddy, it’s raining. Was that what you meant

to tell me?’



‘Of course,’ said her Daddy. ‘And I told it you without saying a word,

didn’t I?’



‘Well, I think I would have known it in a minute, but that raindrop made

me quite sure. I’ll always remember now. Shu-ya means rain, or “it is

going to rain.” Why, Daddy!’ She got up and danced round him. ‘S’pose

you went out before I was awake, and drawed shu-ya in the smoke on the

wall, I’d know it was going to rain and I’d take my beaver-skin hood.

Wouldn’t Mummy be surprised?’


