“You know best,” I answered. “It’s my profession.”



“Very well,” said the Major; “you must come out with me now--at

once--in an ekka to the Canal to shoot black-buck. Go and put on

shikar-kit--quick--and drive here with a gun.”



The Major was a masterful man; and I knew that he would not give orders

for nothing. So I obeyed, and on return found the Major packed up in an

ekka--gun-cases and food slung below--all ready for a shooting-trip.



He dismissed the driver and drove himself. We jogged along quietly

while in the station; but as soon as we got to the dusty road across the

plains, he made that pony fly. A country-bred can do nearly anything at

a pinch. We covered the thirty miles in under three hours, but the poor

brute was nearly dead.



Once I said: “What’s the blazing hurry, Major?”



He said, quietly: “The Boy has been alone, by himself, for--one, two,

five--fourteen hours now! I tell you, I don’t feel easy.”



This uneasiness spread itself to me, and I helped to beat the pony.



When we came to the Canal Engineer’s Rest House the Major called for The

Boy’s servant; but there was no answer. Then we went up to the house,

calling for The Boy by name; but there was no answer.



“Oh, he’s out shooting,” said I.



Just then I saw through one of the windows a little hurricane-lamp

burning. This was at four in the afternoon. We both stopped dead in the

verandah, holding our breath to catch every sound; and we heard, inside

the room, the “brr--brr--brr” of a multitude of flies. The Major said

nothing, but he took off his helmet and we entered very softly.



The Boy was dead on the charpoy in the centre of the bare, lime-washed

room. He had shot his head nearly to pieces with his revolver. The

gun-cases were still strapped, so was the bedding, and on the table lay

The Boy’s writing-case with photographs. He had gone away to die like a

poisoned rat!



The Major said to himself softly: “Poor Boy! Poor, POOR devil!” Then he

turned away from the bed and said: “I want your help in this business.”



Knowing The Boy was dead by his own hand, I saw exactly what that help

would be, so I passed over to the table, took a chair, lit a cheroot,

and began to go through the writing-case; the Major looking over my

shoulder and repeating to himself: “We came too late!--Like a rat in a

hole!--Poor, POOR devil!”



The Boy must have spent half the night in writing to his people, and to

his Colonel, and to a girl at Home; and as soon as he had finished, must

have shot himself, for he had been dead a long time when we came in.



I read all that he had written, and passed over each sheet to the Major

as I finished it.



We saw from his accounts how very seriously he had taken everything.

He wrote about “disgrace which he was unable to bear”--“indelible

shame”--“criminal folly”--“wasted life,” and so on; besides a lot of

private things to his Father and Mother too much too sacred to put into

print. The letter to the girl at Home was the most pitiful of all; and

I choked as I read it. The Major made no attempt to keep dry-eyed.

I respected him for that. He read and rocked himself to and fro, and

simply cried like a woman without caring to hide it. The letters were so

dreary and hopeless and touching. We forgot all about The Boy’s follies,

and only thought of the poor Thing on the charpoy and the scrawled

sheets in our hands. It was utterly impossible to let the letters go

Home. They would have broken his Father’s heart and killed his Mother

after killing her belief in her son.



At last the Major dried his eyes openly, and said: “Nice sort of thing

to spring on an English family! What shall we do?”



I said, knowing what the Major had brought me but for: “The Boy died

of cholera. We were with him at the time. We can’t commit ourselves to

half-measures. Come along.”



Then began one of the most grimy comic scenes I have ever taken part

in--the concoction of a big, written lie, bolstered with evidence, to

soothe The Boy’s people at Home. I began the rough draft of a letter,

the Major throwing in hints here and there while he gathered up all the

stuff that The Boy had written and burnt it in the fireplace. It was a

hot, still evening when we began, and the lamp burned very badly. In due

course I got the draft to my satisfaction, setting forth how The Boy was

the pattern of all virtues, beloved by his regiment, with every promise

of a great career before him, and so on; how we had helped him through

the sickness--it was no time for little lies, you will understand--and

how he had died without pain. I choked while I was putting down these

things and thinking of the poor people who would read them. Then I

laughed at the grotesqueness of the affair, and the laughter mixed

itself up with the choke--and the Major said that we both wanted drinks.



I am afraid to say how much whiskey we drank before the letter was

finished. It had not the least effect on us. Then we took off The Boy’s

watch, locket, and rings.



Lastly, the Major said: “We must send a lock of hair too. A woman values

that.”



But there were reasons why we could not find a lock fit to send. The Boy

was black-haired, and so was the Major, luckily. I cut off a piece of

the Major’s hair above the temple with a knife, and put it into the

packet we were making. The laughing-fit and the chokes got hold of me

again, and I had to stop. The Major was nearly as bad; and we both knew

that the worst part of the work was to come.



We sealed up the packet, photographs, locket, seals, ring, letter, and

lock of hair with The Boy’s sealing-wax and The Boy’s seal.



Then the Major said: “For God’s sake let’s get outside--away from the

room--and think!”



We went outside, and walked on the banks of the Canal for an hour,

eating and drinking what we had with us, until the moon rose. I know now

exactly how a murderer feels. Finally, we forced ourselves back to the

room with the lamp and the Other Thing in it, and began to take up

the next piece of work. I am not going to write about this. It was too

horrible. We burned the bedstead and dropped the ashes into the Canal;

we took up the matting of the room and treated that in the same way.

I went off to a village and borrowed two big hoes--I did not want the

villagers to help--while the Major arranged--the other matters. It took

us four hours’ hard work to make the grave. As we worked, we argued out

whether it was right to say as much as we remembered of the Burial

of the Dead. We compromised things by saying the Lord’s Prayer with a

private unofficial prayer for the peace of the soul of The Boy. Then we

filled in the grave and went into the verandah--not the house--to lie

down to sleep. We were dead-tired.



When we woke the Major said, wearily: “We can’t go back till to-morrow.

We must give him a decent time to die in. He died early THIS morning,

remember. That seems more natural.” So the Major must have been lying

awake all the time, thinking.



I said: “Then why didn’t we bring the body back to the cantonments?”



The Major thought for a minute:--“Because the people bolted when they

heard of the cholera. And the ekka has gone!”



That was strictly true. We had forgotten all about the ekka-pony, and he

had gone home.



So, we were left there alone, all that stifling day, in the Canal Rest

House, testing and re-testing our story of The Boy’s death to see if it

was weak at any point. A native turned up in the afternoon, but we said

that a Sahib was dead of cholera, and he ran away. As the dusk gathered,

the Major told me all his fears about The Boy, and awful stories of

suicide or nearly-carried-out suicide--tales that made one’s hair crisp.

He said that he himself had once gone into the same Valley of the Shadow

as the Boy, when he was young and new to the country; so he understood

how things fought together in The Boy’s poor jumbled head. He also said

that youngsters, in their repentant moments, consider their sins much

more serious and ineffaceable than they really are. We talked together

all through the evening, and rehearsed the story of the death of The

Boy. As soon as the moon was up, and The Boy, theoretically, just

buried, we struck across country for the Station. We walked from eight

till six o’clock in the morning; but though we were dead-tired, we did

not forget to go to The Boy’s room and put away his revolver with the

proper amount of cartridges in the pouch. Also to set his writing-case

on the table. We found the Colonel and reported the death, feeling more

like murderers than ever. Then we went to bed and slept the clock round;

for there was no more in us.



The tale had credence as long as was necessary, for every one forgot

about The Boy before a fortnight was over. Many people, however, found

time to say that the Major had behaved scandalously in not bringing in

the body for a regimental funeral. The saddest thing of all was a letter

from The Boy’s mother to the Major and me--with big inky blisters all

over the sheet. She wrote the sweetest possible things about our great

kindness, and the obligation she would be under to us as long as she

lived.



All things considered, she WAS under an obligation; but not exactly as

she meant.




