The salt made the oar bandies like sharkskin; our knees were cut to the

bone with salt cracks; our hair was stuck to our foreheads; and our lips

were cut to our gums and you whipped us because we could not row,

  _Will you never let us go?_



  But in a little time we shall run out of the portholes as the water runs

along the oarblade, and though you tell the others to row after us you

will never catch us till you catch the oar-thresh and tie up the winds in

the belly of the sail. Aho!

  _Will you never let us go?_"



"H'm. What's oar-thresh, Charlie?"



"The water washed up by the oars. That's the sort of song they might sing

in the galley, y'know. Aren't you ever going to finish that story and give

me some of the profits?"



"It depends on yourself. If you had only told me more about your hero in

the first instance it might have been finished by now. You're so hazy in

your notions."



"I only want to give you the general notion of it--the knocking about from

place to place and the fighting and all that. Can't you fill in the rest

yourself? Make the hero save a girl on a pirate-galley and marry her or do

something."



"You're a really helpful collaborator. I suppose the hero went through

some few adventures before he married."



"Well then, make him a very artful card--a low sort of man--a sort of

political man who went about making treaties and breaking them--a

black-haired chap who hid behind the mast when the fighting began."



"But you said the other day that he was red-haired."



"I couldn't have. Make him black-haired of course. You've no imagination."



Seeing that I had just discovered the entire principles upon which the

half-memory falsely called imagination is based, I felt entitled to laugh,

but forbore, for the sake of the tale.



"You're right _You're_ the man with imagination. A black-haired chap in a

decked ship," I said.



"No, an open ship--like a big boat."



This was maddening.



"Your ship has been built and designed, closed and decked in; you said so

yourself," I protested.



"No, no, not that ship. That was open, or half decked because--By Jove

you're right You made me think of the hero as a red-haired chap. Of course

if he were red, the ship would be an open one with painted sails,"



Surely, I thought, he would remember now that he had served in two galleys

at least--in a three-decked Greek one under the black-haired "political

man," and again in a Viking's open sea-serpent under the man "red as a red

bear" who went to Markland. The devil prompted me to speak.



"Why, 'of course,' Charlie?" said I.



"I don't know. Are you making fun of me?"



The current was broken for the time being. I took up a notebook and

pretended to make many entries in it.



"It's a pleasure to work with an imaginative chap like yourself," I said,

after a pause. "The way that you've brought out the character of the hero

is simply wonderful."



"Do you think so?" he answered, with a pleased flush. "I often tell myself

that there's more in me than my mo--than people think."



"There's an enormous amount in you."



"Then, won't you let me send an essay on The Ways of Bank Clerks to

_Tit-Bits_, and get the guinea prize?"



"That wasn't exactly what I meant, old fellow; perhaps it would be better

to wait a little and go ahead with the galley-story."



"Ah, but I sha'n't get the credit of that. _Tit-Bits_ would publish my

name and address if I win. What are you grinning at? They _would_."



"I know it. Suppose you go for a walk. I want to look through my notes

about our story."



Now this reprehensible youth who left me, a little hurt and put back,

might for aught he or I knew have been one of the crew of the _Argo_--had

been certainly slave or comrade to Thorfin Karlsefne. Therefore he was

deeply interested in guinea competitions. Remembering what Grish Chunder

had said I laughed aloud. The Lords of Life and Death would never allow

Charlie Mears to speak with full knowledge of his pasts, and I must even

piece out what he had told me with my own poor inventions while Charlie

wrote of the ways of bank clerks.



I got together and placed on one file all my notes; and the net result was

not cheering. I read them a second time. There was nothing that might not

have been compiled at secondhand from other people's books--except,

perhaps, the story of the fight in the harbor. The adventures of a Viking

had been written many times before; the history of a Greek galley-slave

was no new thing, and though I wrote both, who could challenge or confirm

the accuracy of my details? I might as well tell a tale of two thousand

years hence. The Lords of Life and Death were as cunning as Grish Chunder

had hinted. They would allow nothing to escape that might trouble or make

easy the minds of men. Though I was convinced of this, yet I could not

leave the tale alone. Exaltation followed reaction, not once, but twenty

times in the next few weeks. My moods varied with the March sunlight and

flying clouds. By night or in the beauty of a spring morning I perceived

that I could write that tale and shift continents thereby. In the wet,

windy afternoons, I saw that the tale might indeed be written, but would

be nothing more than a faked, false-varnished, sham-rusted piece of

Wardour Street work at the end. Then I blessed Charlie in many

ways--though it was no fault of his. He seemed to be busy with prize

competitions, and I saw less and less of him as the weeks went by and the

earth cracked and grew ripe to spring, and the buds swelled in their

sheaths. He did not care to read or talk of what he had read, and there

was a new ring of self-assertion in his voice. I hardly cared to remind

him of the galley when we met; but Charlie alluded to it on every

occasion, always as a story from which money was to be made.



"I think I deserve twenty-five per cent., don't I, at least," he said,

with beautiful frankness. "I supplied all the ideas, didn't I?"



This greediness for silver was a new side in his nature. I assumed that it

had been developed in the City, where Charlie was picking up the curious

nasal drawl of the underbred City man.



"When the thing's done we'll talk about it. I can't make anything of it at

present. Red-haired or black-haired hero are equally difficult."



He was sitting by the fire staring at the red coals. "I can't understand

what you find so difficult. It's all as clear as mud to me," he replied. A

jet of gas puffed out between the bars, took light and whistled softly.

"Suppose we take the red-haired hero's adventures first, from the time

that he came south to my galley and captured it and sailed to the

Beaches."



I knew better now than to interrupt Charlie. I was out of reach of pen and

paper, and dared not move to get them lest I should break the current. The

gas-jet puffed and whinnied, Charlie's voice dropped almost to a whisper,

and he told a tale of the sailing of an open galley to Furdurstrandi, of

sunsets on the open sea, seen under the curve of the one sail evening

after evening when the galley's beak was notched into the centre of the

sinking disc, and "we sailed by that for we had no other guide," quoth

Charlie. He spoke of a landing on an island and explorations in its woods,

where the crew killed three men whom they found asleep under the pines.

Their ghosts, Charlie said, followed the galley, swimming and choking in

the water, and the crew cast lots and threw one of their number overboard

as a sacrifice to the strange gods whom they had offended. Then they ate

sea-weed when their provisions failed, and their legs swelled, and their

leader, the red-haired man, killed two rowers who mutinied, and after a

year spent among the woods they set sail for their own country, and a wind

that never failed carried them back so safely that they all slept at

night. This, and much more Charlie told. Sometimes the voice fell so low

that I could not catch the words, though every nerve was on the strain, He

spoke of their leader, the red-haired man, as a pagan speaks of his God;

for it was he who cheered them and slew them impartially as he thought

best for their needs; and it was he who steered them for three days among

floating ice, each floe crowded with strange beasts that "tried to sail

with us," said Charlie, "and we beat them back with the handles of the

oars."



The gas-jet went out, a burned coal gave way, and the fire settled down

with a tiny crash to the bottom of the grate. Charlie ceased speaking, and

I said no word,



"By Jove!" he said, at last, shaking his head. "I've been staring at the

fire till I'm dizzy. What was I going to say?"



"Something about the galley."



"I remember now. It's 25 per cent. of the profits, isn't it?"



"It's anything you like when I've done the tale."



"I wanted to be sure of that. I must go now. I've--I've an appointment."

And he left me.



Had my eyes not been held I might have known that that broken muttering

over the fire was the swan-song of Charlie Mears. But I thought it the

prelude to fuller revelation. At last and at last I should cheat the Lords

of Life and Death!



When next Charlie came to me I received him with rapture. He was nervous

and embarrassed, but his eyes were very full of light, and his lips a

little parted.



"I've done a poem," he said; and then, quickly: "it's the best I've ever

done. Read it." He thrust it into my hand and retreated to the window.


