He sat, in defiance of municipal orders, astride the gun Zam Zammah on

her brick platform opposite the old Ajaib-Gher--the Wonder House, as

the natives call the Lahore Museum. Who hold Zam-Zammah, that

'fire-breathing dragon', hold the Punjab, for the great green-bronze

piece is always first of the conqueror's loot.



There was some justification for Kim--he had kicked Lala Dinanath's boy

off the trunnions--since the English held the Punjab and Kim was

English.  Though he was burned black as any native; though he spoke the

vernacular by preference, and his mother-tongue in a clipped uncertain

sing-song; though he consorted on terms of perfect equality with the

small boys of the bazar; Kim was white--a poor white of the very

poorest.  The half-caste woman who looked after him (she smoked opium,

and pretended to keep a second-hand furniture shop by the square where

the cheap cabs wait) told the missionaries that she was Kim's mother's

sister; but his mother had been nursemaid in a Colonel's family and had

married Kimball O'Hara, a young colour-sergeant of the Mavericks, an

Irish regiment.  He afterwards took a post on the Sind, Punjab, and

Delhi Railway, and his Regiment went home without him.  The wife died

of cholera in Ferozepore, and O'Hara fell to drink and loafing up and

down the line with the keen-eyed three-year-old baby.  Societies and

chaplains, anxious for the child, tried to catch him, but O'Hara

drifted away, till he came across the woman who took opium and learned

the taste from her, and died as poor whites die in India.  His estate

at death consisted of three papers--one he called his 'ne varietur'

because those words were written below his signature thereon, and

another his 'clearance-certificate'.  The third was Kim's

birth-certificate.  Those things, he was used to say, in his glorious

opium-hours, would yet make little Kimball a man.  On no account was

Kim to part with them, for they belonged to a great piece of

magic--such magic as men practised over yonder behind the Museum, in

the big blue-and-white Jadoo-Gher--the Magic House, as we name the

Masonic Lodge.  It would, he said, all come right some day, and Kim's

horn would be exalted between pillars--monstrous pillars--of beauty and

strength.  The Colonel himself, riding on a horse, at the head of the

finest Regiment in the world, would attend to Kim--little Kim that

should have been better off than his father.  Nine hundred first-class

devils, whose God was a Red Bull on a green field, would attend to Kim,

if they had not forgotten O'Hara--poor O'Hara that was gang-foreman on

the Ferozepore line.  Then he would weep bitterly in the broken rush

chair on the veranda.  So it came about after his death that the woman

sewed parchment, paper, and birth-certificate into a leather

amulet-case which she strung round Kim's neck.



'And some day,' she said, confusedly remembering O'Hara's prophecies,

'there will come for you a great Red Bull on a green field, and the

Colonel riding on his tall horse, yes, and' dropping into

English--'nine hundred devils.'



'Ah,' said Kim, 'I shall remember.  A Red Bull and a Colonel on a horse

will come, but first, my father said, will come the two men making

ready the ground for these matters.  That is how my father said they

always did; and it is always so when men work magic.'



If the woman had sent Kim up to the local Jadoo-Gher with those papers,

he would, of course, have been taken over by the Provincial Lodge, and

sent to the Masonic Orphanage in the Hills; but what she had heard of

magic she distrusted.  Kim, too, held views of his own.  As he reached

the years of indiscretion, he learned to avoid missionaries and white

men of serious aspect who asked who he was, and what he did.  For Kim

did nothing with an immense success.  True, he knew the wonderful

walled city of Lahore from the Delhi Gate to the outer Fort Ditch; was

hand in glove with men who led lives stranger than anything Haroun al

Raschid dreamed of; and he lived in a life wild as that of the Arabian

Nights, but missionaries and secretaries of charitable societies could

not see the beauty of it.  His nickname through the wards was 'Little

Friend of all the World'; and very often, being lithe and

inconspicuous, he executed commissions by night on the crowded

housetops for sleek and shiny young men of fashion.  It was

intrigue,--of course he knew that much, as he had known all evil since

he could speak,--but what he loved was the game for its own sake--the

stealthy prowl through the dark gullies and lanes, the crawl up a

waterpipe, the sights and sounds of the women's world on the flat

roofs, and the headlong flight from housetop to housetop under cover of

the hot dark. Then there were holy men, ash-smeared fakirs by their

brick shrines under the trees at the riverside, with whom he was quite

familiar--greeting them as they returned from begging-tours, and, when

no one was by, eating from the same dish.  The woman who looked after

him insisted with tears that he should wear European clothes--trousers,

a shirt and a battered hat.  Kim found it easier to slip into Hindu or

Mohammedan garb when engaged on certain businesses.  One of the young

men of fashion--he who was found dead at the bottom of a well on the

night of the earthquake--had once given him a complete suit of Hindu

kit, the costume of a lowcaste street boy, and Kim stored it in a

secret place under some baulks in Nila Ram's timber-yard, beyond the

Punjab High Court, where the fragrant deodar logs lie seasoning after

they have driven down the Ravi.  When there was business or frolic

afoot, Kim would use his properties, returning at dawn to the veranda,

all tired out from shouting at the heels of a marriage procession, or

yelling at a Hindu festival.  Sometimes there was food in the house,

more often there was not, and then Kim went out again to eat with his

native friends.



As he drummed his heels against Zam-Zammah he turned now and again from

his king-of-the-castle game with little Chota Lal and Abdullah the

sweetmeat-seller's son, to make a rude remark to the native policeman

on guard over rows of shoes at the Museum door. The big Punjabi grinned

tolerantly:  he knew Kim of old.  So did the water-carrier, sluicing

water on the dry road from his goat-skin bag.  So did Jawahir Singh,

the Museum carpenter, bent over new packing-cases.  So did everybody in

sight except the peasants from the country, hurrying up to the Wonder

House to view the things that men made in their own province and

elsewhere.  The Museum was given up to Indian arts and manufactures,

and anybody who sought wisdom could ask the Curator to explain.



'Off!  Off!  Let me up!' cried Abdullah, climbing up Zam-Zammah's wheel.



'Thy father was a pastry-cook, Thy mother stole the ghi,' sang Kim.

'All Mussalmans fell off Zam-Zammah long ago!'



'Let me up!' shrilled little Chota Lal in his gilt-embroidered cap.

His father was worth perhaps half a million sterling, but India is the

only democratic land in the world.



'The Hindus fell off Zam-Zammah too.  The Mussalmans pushed them off.

Thy father was a pastry-cook--'



He stopped; for there shuffled round the corner, from the roaring Motee

Bazar, such a man as Kim, who thought he knew all castes, had never

seen.  He was nearly six feet high, dressed in fold upon fold of dingy

stuff like horse-blanketing, and not one fold of it could Kim refer to

any known trade or profession.  At his belt hung a long open-work iron

pencase and a wooden rosary such as holy men wear.  On his head was a

gigantic sort of tam-o'-shanter. His face was yellow and wrinkled, like

that of Fook Shing, the Chinese bootmaker in the bazar.  His eyes

turned up at the corners and looked like little slits of onyx.



'Who is that?' said Kim to his companions.



'Perhaps it is a man,' said Abdullah, finger in mouth, staring.



'Without doubt,' returned Kim; 'but he is no man of India that I have

ever seen.'



'A priest, perhaps,' said Chota Lal, spying the rosary.  'See!  He goes

into the Wonder House!'



'Nay, nay,' said the policeman, shaking his head.  'I do not understand

your talk.'  The constable spoke Punjabi.  'O Friend of all the World,

what does he say?'



'Send him hither,' said Kim, dropping from Zam-Zammah, flourishing his

bare heels.  'He is a foreigner, and thou art a buffalo.'



The man turned helplessly and drifted towards the boys.  He was old,

and his woollen gaberdine still reeked of the stinking artemisia of the

mountain passes.



'O Children, what is that big house?' he said in very fair Urdu.



'The Ajaib-Gher, the Wonder House!'  Kim gave him no title--such as

Lala or Mian.  He could not divine the man's creed.



'Ah!  The Wonder House!  Can any enter?'



'It is written above the door--all can enter.'



'Without payment?'



'I go in and out.  I am no banker,' laughed Kim.



'Alas!  I am an old man.  I did not know.'  Then, fingering his rosary,

he half turned to the Museum.



'What is your caste?  Where is your house?  Have you come far?'  Kim

asked.



'I came by Kulu--from beyond the Kailas--but what know you? From the

Hills where'--he sighed--'the air and water are fresh and cool.'



'Aha!  Khitai [a Chinaman],' said Abdullah proudly.  Fook Shing had

once chased him out of his shop for spitting at the joss above the

boots.



'Pahari [a hillman],' said little Chota Lal.



'Aye, child--a hillman from hills thou'lt never see.  Didst hear of

Bhotiyal [Tibet]?  I am no Khitai, but a Bhotiya [Tibetan], since you

must know--a lama--or, say, a guru in your tongue.'



'A guru from Tibet,' said Kim.  'I have not seen such a man.  They be

Hindus in Tibet, then?'



'We be followers of the Middle Way, living in peace in our lamasseries,

and I go to see the Four Holy Places before I die. Now do you, who are

children, know as much as I do who am old.' He smiled benignantly on

the boys.



'Hast thou eaten?'



He fumbled in his bosom and drew forth a worn, wooden begging-bowl. The

boys nodded.  All priests of their acquaintance begged.



'I do not wish to eat yet.'  He turned his head like an old tortoise in

the sunlight.  'Is it true that there are many images in the Wonder

House of Lahore?'  He repeated the last words as one making sure of an

address.



'That is true,' said Abdullah.  'It is full of heathen busts.  Thou

also art an idolater.'



'Never mind him,' said.  Kim.  'That is the Government's house and

there is no idolatry in it, but only a Sahib with a white beard. Come

with me and I will show.'



'Strange priests eat boys,' whispered Chota Lal.



'And he is a stranger and a but-parast [idolater],' said Abdullah, the

Mohammedan.



Kim laughed.  'He is new.  Run to your mothers' laps, and be safe.

Come!'



Kim clicked round the self-registering turnstile; the old man followed

and halted amazed.  In the entrance-hall stood the larger figures of

the Greco-Buddhist sculptures done, savants know how long since, by

forgotten workmen whose hands were feeling, and not unskilfully, for

the mysteriously transmitted Grecian touch. There were hundreds of

pieces, friezes of figures in relief, fragments of statues and slabs

crowded with figures that had encrusted the brick walls of the Buddhist

stupas and viharas of the North Country and now, dug up and labelled,

made the pride of the Museum.  In open-mouthed wonder the lama turned

to this and that, and finally checked in rapt attention before a large

alto-relief representing a coronation or apotheosis of the Lord Buddha.

The Master was represented seated on a lotus the petals of which were

so deeply undercut as to show almost detached. Round Him was an adoring

hierarchy of kings, elders, and old-time Buddhas.  Below were

lotus-covered waters with fishes and water-birds.  Two butterfly-winged

devas held a wreath over His head; above them another pair supported an

umbrella surmounted by the jewelled headdress of the Bodhisat.



'The Lord!  The Lord!  It is Sakya Muni himself,' the lama half sobbed;

and under his breath began the wonderful Buddhist invocation:



To Him the Way, the Law, apart, Whom Maya held beneath her heart,

Ananda's Lord, the Bodhisat.



'And He is here!  The Most Excellent Law is here also.  My pilgrimage

is well begun.  And what work!  What work!'


