HEAR and attend and listen; for this befell and behappened and became

and was, O my Best Beloved, when the Tame animals were wild. The Dog was

wild, and the Horse was wild, and the Cow was wild, and the Sheep was

wild, and the Pig was wild--as wild as wild could be--and they walked in

the Wet Wild Woods by their wild lones. But the wildest of all the wild

animals was the Cat. He walked by himself, and all places were alike to

him.



Of course the Man was wild too. He was dreadfully wild. He didn’t even

begin to be tame till he met the Woman, and she told him that she

did not like living in his wild ways. She picked out a nice dry Cave,

instead of a heap of wet leaves, to lie down in; and she strewed clean

sand on the floor; and she lit a nice fire of wood at the back of

the Cave; and she hung a dried wild-horse skin, tail-down, across the

opening of the Cave; and she said, ‘Wipe you feet, dear, when you come

in, and now we’ll keep house.’



That night, Best Beloved, they ate wild sheep roasted on the hot stones,

and flavoured with wild garlic and wild pepper; and wild duck stuffed

with wild rice and wild fenugreek and wild coriander; and marrow-bones

of wild oxen; and wild cherries, and wild grenadillas. Then the Man

went to sleep in front of the fire ever so happy; but the Woman sat up,

combing her hair. She took the bone of the shoulder of mutton--the big

fat blade-bone--and she looked at the wonderful marks on it, and she

threw more wood on the fire, and she made a Magic. She made the First

Singing Magic in the world.



Out in the Wet Wild Woods all the wild animals gathered together where

they could see the light of the fire a long way off, and they wondered

what it meant.



Then Wild Horse stamped with his wild foot and said, ‘O my Friends and O

my Enemies, why have the Man and the Woman made that great light in that

great Cave, and what harm will it do us?’



Wild Dog lifted up his wild nose and smelled the smell of roast mutton,

and said, ‘I will go up and see and look, and say; for I think it is

good. Cat, come with me.’



‘Nenni!’ said the Cat. ‘I am the Cat who walks by himself, and all

places are alike to me. I will not come.’



‘Then we can never be friends again,’ said Wild Dog, and he trotted off

to the Cave. But when he had gone a little way the Cat said to himself,

‘All places are alike to me. Why should I not go too and see and look

and come away at my own liking.’ So he slipped after Wild Dog softly,

very softly, and hid himself where he could hear everything.



When Wild Dog reached the mouth of the Cave he lifted up the dried

horse-skin with his nose and sniffed the beautiful smell of the roast

mutton, and the Woman, looking at the blade-bone, heard him, and

laughed, and said, ‘Here comes the first. Wild Thing out of the Wild

Woods, what do you want?’



Wild Dog said, ‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy, what is this that

smells so good in the Wild Woods?’



Then the Woman picked up a roasted mutton-bone and threw it to Wild Dog,

and said, ‘Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods, taste and try.’ Wild Dog

gnawed the bone, and it was more delicious than anything he had ever

tasted, and he said, ‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy, give me another.’



The Woman said, ‘Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods, help my Man to hunt

through the day and guard this Cave at night, and I will give you as

many roast bones as you need.’



‘Ah!’ said the Cat, listening. ‘This is a very wise Woman, but she is

not so wise as I am.’



Wild Dog crawled into the Cave and laid his head on the Woman’s lap, and

said, ‘O my Friend and Wife of my Friend, I will help Your Man to hunt

through the day, and at night I will guard your Cave.’



‘Ah!’ said the Cat, listening. ‘That is a very foolish Dog.’ And he went

back through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail, and walking by his

wild lone. But he never told anybody.



When the Man waked up he said, ‘What is Wild Dog doing here?’ And the

Woman said, ‘His name is not Wild Dog any more, but the First Friend,

because he will be our friend for always and always and always. Take him

with you when you go hunting.’



Next night the Woman cut great green armfuls of fresh grass from the

water-meadows, and dried it before the fire, so that it smelt like

new-mown hay, and she sat at the mouth of the Cave and plaited a halter

out of horse-hide, and she looked at the shoulder of mutton-bone--at the

big broad blade-bone--and she made a Magic. She made the Second Singing

Magic in the world.



Out in the Wild Woods all the wild animals wondered what had happened to

Wild Dog, and at last Wild Horse stamped with his foot and said, ‘I will

go and see and say why Wild Dog has not returned. Cat, come with me.’



‘Nenni!’ said the Cat. ‘I am the Cat who walks by himself, and all

places are alike to me. I will not come.’ But all the same he followed

Wild Horse softly, very softly, and hid himself where he could hear

everything.



When the Woman heard Wild Horse tripping and stumbling on his long mane,

she laughed and said, ‘Here comes the second. Wild Thing out of the Wild

Woods what do you want?’



Wild Horse said, ‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy, where is Wild Dog?’



The Woman laughed, and picked up the blade-bone and looked at it, and

said, ‘Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods, you did not come here for Wild

Dog, but for the sake of this good grass.’



And Wild Horse, tripping and stumbling on his long mane, said, ‘That is

true; give it me to eat.’



The Woman said, ‘Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods, bend your wild head

and wear what I give you, and you shall eat the wonderful grass three

times a day.’



‘Ah,’ said the Cat, listening, ‘this is a clever Woman, but she is not

so clever as I am.’ Wild Horse bent his wild head, and the Woman slipped

the plaited hide halter over it, and Wild Horse breathed on the Woman’s

feet and said, ‘O my Mistress, and Wife of my Master, I will be your

servant for the sake of the wonderful grass.’



‘Ah,’ said the Cat, listening, ‘that is a very foolish Horse.’ And he

went back through the Wet Wild Woods, waving his wild tail and walking

by his wild lone. But he never told anybody.



When the Man and the Dog came back from hunting, the Man said, ‘What is

Wild Horse doing here?’ And the Woman said, ‘His name is not Wild Horse

any more, but the First Servant, because he will carry us from place

to place for always and always and always. Ride on his back when you go

hunting.



Next day, holding her wild head high that her wild horns should not

catch in the wild trees, Wild Cow came up to the Cave, and the Cat

followed, and hid himself just the same as before; and everything

happened just the same as before; and the Cat said the same things as

before, and when Wild Cow had promised to give her milk to the Woman

every day in exchange for the wonderful grass, the Cat went back through

the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone,

just the same as before. But he never told anybody. And when the Man

and the Horse and the Dog came home from hunting and asked the same

questions same as before, the Woman said, ‘Her name is not Wild Cow any

more, but the Giver of Good Food. She will give us the warm white milk

for always and always and always, and I will take care of her while you

and the First Friend and the First Servant go hunting.



Next day the Cat waited to see if any other Wild thing would go up to

the Cave, but no one moved in the Wet Wild Woods, so the Cat walked

there by himself; and he saw the Woman milking the Cow, and he saw the

light of the fire in the Cave, and he smelt the smell of the warm white

milk.



Cat said, ‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy, where did Wild Cow go?’



The Woman laughed and said, ‘Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods, go back

to the Woods again, for I have braided up my hair, and I have put away

the magic blade-bone, and we have no more need of either friends or

servants in our Cave.



Cat said, ‘I am not a friend, and I am not a servant. I am the Cat who

walks by himself, and I wish to come into your cave.’



Woman said, ‘Then why did you not come with First Friend on the first

night?’



Cat grew very angry and said, ‘Has Wild Dog told tales of me?’



Then the Woman laughed and said, ‘You are the Cat who walks by himself,

and all places are alike to you. Your are neither a friend nor a

servant. You have said it yourself. Go away and walk by yourself in all

places alike.’



Then Cat pretended to be sorry and said, ‘Must I never come into the

Cave? Must I never sit by the warm fire? Must I never drink the warm

white milk? You are very wise and very beautiful. You should not be

cruel even to a Cat.’



Woman said, ‘I knew I was wise, but I did not know I was beautiful. So I

will make a bargain with you. If ever I say one word in your praise you

may come into the Cave.’



‘And if you say two words in my praise?’ said the Cat.



‘I never shall,’ said the Woman, ‘but if I say two words in your praise,

you may sit by the fire in the Cave.’



‘And if you say three words?’ said the Cat.



‘I never shall,’ said the Woman, ‘but if I say three words in your

praise, you may drink the warm white milk three times a day for always

and always and always.’



Then the Cat arched his back and said, ‘Now let the Curtain at the mouth

of the Cave, and the Fire at the back of the Cave, and the Milk-pots

that stand beside the Fire, remember what my Enemy and the Wife of my

Enemy has said.’ And he went away through the Wet Wild Woods waving his

wild tail and walking by his wild lone.



That night when the Man and the Horse and the Dog came home from

hunting, the Woman did not tell them of the bargain that she had made

with the Cat, because she was afraid that they might not like it.



Cat went far and far away and hid himself in the Wet Wild Woods by his

wild lone for a long time till the Woman forgot all about him. Only the

Bat--the little upside-down Bat--that hung inside the Cave, knew where

Cat hid; and every evening Bat would fly to Cat with news of what was

happening.



One evening Bat said, ‘There is a Baby in the Cave. He is new and pink

and fat and small, and the Woman is very fond of him.’



‘Ah,’ said the Cat, listening, ‘but what is the Baby fond of?’



‘He is fond of things that are soft and tickle,’ said the Bat. ‘He is

fond of warm things to hold in his arms when he goes to sleep. He is

fond of being played with. He is fond of all those things.’



‘Ah,’ said the Cat, listening, ‘then my time has come.’


