"Not unless he's been entered for the Liverpool Handicap." He nodded and

disappeared in the crowd.



Now it is written in the Saga of Eric the Red or that of Thorfin

Karlsefne, that nine hundred years ago when Karlsefne's galleys came to

Leif's booths, which Leif had erected in the unknown land called Markland,

which may or may not have been Rhode Island, the Skroelings--and the Lord

He knows who these may or may not have been--came to trade with the

Vikings, and ran away because they were frightened at the bellowing of the

cattle which Thorfin had brought with him in the ships. But what in the

world could a Greek slave know of that affair? I wandered up and down

among the streets trying to unravel the mystery, and the more I considered

it, the more baffling it grew. One thing only seemed certain, and that

certainty took away my breath for the moment. If I came to full knowledge

of anything at all it would not be one life of the soul in Charlie Mears's

body, but half a dozen--half a dozen several and separate existences spent

on blue water in the morning of the world!



Then I walked round the situation.



Obviously if I used my knowledge I should stand alone and unapproachable

until all men were as wise as myself. That would be something, but manlike

I was ungrateful. It seemed bitterly unfair that Charlie's memory should

fail me when I needed it most. Great Powers above--I looked up at them

through the fog smoke--did the Lords of Life and Death know what this

meant to me? Nothing less than eternal fame of the best kind, that comes

from One, and is shared by one alone. I would be content--remembering

Clive, I stood astounded at my own moderation,--with the mere right to

tell one story, to work out one little contribution to the light

literature of the day. If Charlie were permitted full recollection for one

hour--for sixty short minutes--of existences that had extended over a

thousand years--I would forego all profit and honor from all that I should

make of his speech. I would take no share in the commotion that would

follow throughout the particular corner of the earth that calls itself

"the world." The thing should be put forth anonymously. Nay, I would make

other men believe that they had written it. They would hire bull-hided

self-advertising Englishmen to bellow it abroad. Preachers would found a

fresh conduct of life upon it, swearing that it was new and that they had

lifted the fear of death from all mankind. Every Orientalist in Europe

would patronize it discursively with Sanskrit and Pali texts. Terrible

women would invent unclean variants of the men's belief for the elevation

of their sisters. Churches and religions would war over it. Between the

hailing and re-starting of an omnibus I foresaw the scuffles that would

arise among half a dozen denominations all professing "the doctrine of the

True Metempsychosis as applied to the world and the New Era"; and saw,

too, the respectable English newspapers shying, like frightened kine, over

the beautiful simplicity of the tale. The mind leaped forward a

hundred--two hundred--a thousand years. I saw with sorrow that men would

mutilate and garble the story; that rival creeds would turn it upside down

till, at last, the western world which clings to the dread of death more

closely than the hope of life, would set it aside as an interesting

superstition and stampede after some faith so long forgotten that it

seemed altogether new. Upon this I changed the terms of the bargain that I

would make with the Lords of Life and Death. Only let me know, let me

write, the story with sure knowledge that I wrote the truth, and I would

burn the manuscript as a solemn sacrifice. Five minutes after the last

line was written I would destroy it all. But I must be allowed to write it

with absolute certainty.



There was no answer. The flaming colors of an Aquarium poster caught my

eye and I wondered whether it would be wise or prudent to lure Charlie

into the hands of the professional mesmerist, and whether, if he were

under his power, he would speak of his past lives. If he did, and if

people believed him ... but Charlie would be frightened and flustered, or

made conceited by the interviews. In either case he would begin to lie,

through fear or vanity. He was safest in my own hands,



"They are very funny fools, your English," said a voice at my elbow, and

turning round I recognized a casual acquaintance, a young Bengali law

student, called Grish Chunder, whose father had sent him to England to

become civilized. The old man was a retired native official, and on an

income of five pounds a month contrived to allow his son two hundred

pounds a year, and the run of his teeth in a city where he could pretend

to be the cadet of a royal house, and tell stories of the brutal Indian

bureaucrats who ground the faces of the poor.



Grish Chunder was a young, fat, full-bodied Bengali dressed with

scrupulous care in frock coat, tall hat, light trousers and tan gloves.

But I had known him in the days when the brutal Indian Government paid for

his university education, and he contributed cheap sedition to _Sachi

Durpan_, and intrigued with the wives of his schoolmates.



"That is very funny and very foolish," he said, nodding at the poster. "I

am going down to the Northbrook Club. Will you come too?"



I walked with him for some time. "You are not well," he said. "What is

there in your mind? You do not talk."



"Grish Chunder, you've been too well educated to believe in a God, haven't

you?"



"Oah, yes, _here!_ But when I go home I must conciliate popular

superstition, and make ceremonies of purification, and my women will

anoint idols."



"And hang up _tulsi_ and feast the _purohit_, and take you back into caste

again and make a good _khuttri_ of you again, you advanced social

Free-thinker. And you'll eat _desi_ food, and like it all, from the smell

in the courtyard to the mustard oil over you."



"I shall very much like it," said Grish Chunder, unguardedly, "Once a

Hindu--always a Hindu. But I like to know what the English think they

know."



"I'll tell you something that one Englishman knows. It's an old tale to

you."
