

'Not I,' Kim laughed uneasily.  'I go to look for--for a bull--a Red.

Bull on a green field who shall help me.'  Boylike, if an acquaintance

had a scheme, Kim was quite ready with one of his own; and, boylike, he

had really thought for as much as twenty minutes at a time of his

father's prophecy.



'To what, child?'  said the lama.



'God knows, but so my father told me'.  I heard thy talk in the Wonder

House of all those new strange places in the Hills, and if one so old

and so little--so used to truth-telling--may go out for the small

matter of a river, it seemed to me that I too must go a-travelling.  If

it is our fate to find those things we shall find them--thou, thy

River; and I, my Bull, and the Strong Pillars and some other matters

that I forget.'



'It is not pillars but a Wheel from which I would be free,' said the

lama.



'That is all one.  Perhaps they will make me a king,' said Kim,

serenely prepared for anything.



'I will teach thee other and better desires upon the road,' the lama

replied in the voice of authority.  'Let us go to Benares.'



'Not by night.  Thieves are abroad.  Wait till the day.'



'But there is no place to sleep.'  The old man was used to the order of

his monastery, and though he slept on the ground, as the Rule decrees,

preferred a decency in these things.



'We shall get good lodging at the Kashmir Serai,' said Kim, laughing at

his perplexity.  'I have a friend there.  Come!'



The hot and crowded bazars blazed with light as they made their way

through the press of all the races in Upper India, and the lama mooned

through it like a man in a dream.  It was his first experience of a

large manufacturing city, and the crowded tram-car with its continually

squealing brakes frightened him.  Half pushed, half towed, he arrived

at the high gate of the Kashmir Serai:  that huge open square over

against the railway station, surrounded with arched cloisters, where

the camel and horse caravans put up on their return from Central Asia.

Here were all manner of Northern folk, tending tethered ponies and

kneeling camels; loading and unloading bales and bundles; drawing water

for the evening meal at the creaking well-windlasses; piling grass

before the shrieking, wild-eyed stallions; cuffing the surly caravan

dogs; paying off camel-drivers; taking on new grooms; swearing,

shouting, arguing, and chaffering in the packed square.  The cloisters,

reached by three or four masonry steps, made a haven of refuge around

this turbulent sea.  Most of them were rented to traders, as we rent

the arches of a viaduct; the space between pillar and pillar being

bricked or boarded off into rooms, which were guarded by heavy wooden

doors and cumbrous native padlocks.  Locked doors showed that the owner

was away, and a few rude--sometimes very rude--chalk or paint scratches

told where he had gone.  Thus:  'Lutuf Ullah is gone to Kurdistan.'

Below, in coarse verse:  'O Allah, who sufferest lice to live on the

coat of a Kabuli, why hast thou allowed this louse Lutuf to live so

long?'



Kim, fending the lama between excited men and excited beasts, sidled

along the cloisters to the far end, nearest therailway station, where

Mahbub Ali, the horse-trader, lived when he came in from that

mysterious land beyond the Passes of the North.



Kim had had many dealings with Mahbub in his little life, especially

between his tenth and his thirteenth year--and the big burly Afghan,

his beard dyed scarlet with lime (for he was elderly and did not wish

his grey hairs to show), knew the boy's value as a gossip.  Sometimes

he would tell Kim to watch a man who had nothing whatever to do with

horses:  to follow him for one whole day and report every soul with

whom he talked.  Kim would deliver himself of his tale at evening, and

Mahbub would listen without a word or gesture.  It was intrigue of some

kind, Kim knew; but its worth lay in saying nothing whatever to anyone

except Mahbub, who gave him beautiful meals all hot from the cookshop

at the head of the serai, and once as much as eight annas in money.



'He is here,' said Kim, hitting a bad-tempered camel on the nose. 'Ohe.

Mahbub Ali!'  He halted at a dark arch and slipped behind the

bewildered lama.



The horse-trader, his deep, embroidered Bokhariot belt unloosed, was

lying on a pair of silk carpet saddle-bags, pulling lazily at an

immense silver hookah.  He turned his head very slightly at the cry;

and seeing only the tall silent figure, chuckled in his deep chest.



'Allah!  A lama!  A Red Lama!  It is far from Lahore to the Passes.

What dost thou do here?'



The lama held out the begging-bowl mechanically.



'God's curse on all unbelievers!'  said Mahbub.  'I do not give to a

lousy Tibetan; but ask my Baltis over yonder behind the camels. They

may value your blessings.  Oh, horseboys, here is a countryman of

yours.  See if he be hungry.'



A shaven, crouching Balti, who had come down with the horses, and who

was nominally some sort of degraded Buddhist, fawned upon the priest,

and in thick gutturals besought the Holy One to sit at the horseboys'

fire.



'Go!'  said Kim, pushing him lightly, and the lama strode away, leaving

Kim at the edge of the cloister.



'Go!'  said Mahbub Ali, returning to his hookah.  'Little Hindu, run

away.  God's curse on all unbelievers!  Beg from those of my tail who

are of thy faith.'



'Maharaj,' whined Kim, using the Hindu form of address, and thoroughly

enjoying the situation; 'my father is dead--my mother is dead--my

stomach is empty.'



'Beg from my men among the horses, I say.  There must be some Hindus in

my tail.'



'Oh, Mahbub Ali, but am I a Hindu?'  said Kim in English.



The trader gave no sign of astonishment, but looked under shaggy

eyebrows.



'Little Friend of all the World,' said he, 'what is this?'



'Nothing.  I am now that holy man's disciple; and we go a pilgrimage

together--to Benares, he says.  He is quite mad, and I am tired of

Lahore city.  I wish new air and water.'



'But for whom dost thou work?  Why come to me?'  The voice was harsh

with suspicion.



'To whom else should I come?  I have no money.  It is not good to go

about without money.  Thou wilt sell many horses to the officers.  They

are very fine horses, these new ones:  I have seen them.  Give me a

rupee, Mahbub Ali, and when I come to my wealth I will give thee a bond

and pay.'



'Um!'  said Mahbub Ali, thinking swiftly.  'Thou hast never before lied

to me.  Call that lama--stand back in the dark.'



'Oh, our tales will agree,' said Kim, laughing.



'We go to Benares,' said the lama, as soon as he understood the drift

of Mahbub Ali's questions.  'The boy and I, I go to seek for a certain

River.'



'Maybe--but the boy?'



'He is my disciple.  He was sent, I think, to guide me to that River.

Sitting under a gun was I when he came suddenly.  Such things have

befallen the fortunate to whom guidance was allowed. But I remember

now, he said he was of this world--a Hindu.'



'And his name?'



'That I did not ask.  Is he not my disciple?'


