‘It’s a little berangement of my own, Daddy dear,’ said Taffy. ‘If you

won’t ask me questions, you’ll know all about it in a little time, and

you’ll be surprised. You don’t know how surprised you’ll be, Daddy!

Promise you’ll be surprised.’



‘Very well,’ said Tegumai, and went on fishing.



The Stranger-man--did you know he was a Tewara?--hurried away with the

picture and ran for some miles, till quite by accident he found Teshumai

Tewindrow at the door of her Cave, talking to some other Neolithic

ladies who had come in to a Primitive lunch. Taffy was very like

Teshumai, especially about the upper part of the face and the eyes,

so the Stranger-man--always a pure Tewara--smiled politely and handed

Teshumai the birch-bark. He had run hard, so that he panted, and his

legs were scratched with brambles, but he still tried to be polite.



As soon as Teshumai saw the picture she screamed like anything and flew

at the Stranger-man. The other Neolithic ladies at once knocked him down

and sat on him in a long line of six, while Teshumai pulled his hair.



‘It’s as plain as the nose on this Stranger-man’s face,’ she said. ‘He

has stuck my Tegumai all full of spears, and frightened poor Taffy so

that her hair stands all on end; and not content with that, he brings

me a horrid picture of how it was done. Look!’ She showed the picture to

all the Neolithic ladies sitting patiently on the Stranger-man. ‘Here is

my Tegumai with his arm broken; here is a spear sticking into his back;

here is a man with a spear ready to throw; here is another man throwing

a spear from a Cave, and here are a whole pack of people’ (they were

Taffy’s beavers really, but they did look rather like people) ‘coming up

behind Tegumai. Isn’t it shocking!’



‘Most shocking!’ said the Neolithic ladies, and they filled the

Stranger-man’s hair with mud (at which he was surprised), and they beat

upon the Reverberating Tribal Drums, and called together all the chiefs

of the Tribe of Tegumai, with their Hetmans and Dolmans, all Neguses,

Woons, and Akhoonds of the organisation, in addition to the Warlocks,

Angekoks, Juju-men, Bonzes, and the rest, who decided that before they

chopped the Stranger-man’s head off he should instantly lead them down

to the river and show them where he had hidden poor Taffy.



By this time the Stranger-man (in spite of being a Tewara) was really

annoyed. They had filled his hair quite solid with mud; they had rolled

him up and down on knobby pebbles; they had sat upon him in a long

line of six; they had thumped him and bumped him till he could hardly

breathe; and though he did not understand their language, he was almost

sure that the names the Neolithic ladies called him were not ladylike.

However, he said nothing till all the Tribe of Tegumai were assembled,

and then he led them back to the bank of the Wagai river, and there they

found Taffy making daisy-chains, and Tegumai carefully spearing small

carp with his mended spear.



‘Well, you have been quick!’ said Taffy. ‘But why did you bring so many

people? Daddy dear, this is my surprise. Are you surprised, Daddy?’



‘Very,’ said Tegumai; ‘but it has ruined all my fishing for the day.

Why, the whole dear, kind, nice, clean, quiet Tribe is here, Taffy.’



And so they were. First of all walked Teshumai Tewindrow and the

Neolithic ladies, tightly holding on to the Stranger-man, whose hair was

full of mud (although he was a Tewara). Behind them came the Head Chief,

the Vice-Chief, the Deputy and Assistant Chiefs (all armed to the upper

teeth), the Hetmans and Heads of Hundreds, Platoffs with their Platoons,

and Dolmans with their Detachments; Woons, Neguses, and Akhoonds ranking

in the rear (still armed to the teeth). Behind them was the Tribe in

hierarchical order, from owners of four caves (one for each season), a

private reindeer-run, and two salmon-leaps, to feudal and prognathous

Villeins, semi-entitled to half a bearskin of winter nights, seven yards

from the fire, and adscript serfs, holding the reversion of a scraped

marrow-bone under heriot (Aren’t those beautiful words, Best Beloved?).

They were all there, prancing and shouting, and they frightened every

fish for twenty miles, and Tegumai thanked them in a fluid Neolithic

oration.



Then Teshumai Tewindrow ran down and kissed and hugged Taffy very much

indeed; but the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai took Tegumai by the

top-knot feathers and shook him severely.



‘Explain! Explain! Explain!’ cried all the Tribe of Tegumai.



‘Goodness’ sakes alive!’ said Tegumai. ‘Let go of my top-knot. Can’t

a man break his carp-spear without the whole countryside descending on

him? You’re a very interfering people.’



‘I don’t believe you’ve brought my Daddy’s black-handled spear after

all,’ said Taffy. ‘And what are you doing to my nice Stranger-man?’



They were thumping him by twos and threes and tens till his eyes turned

round and round. He could only gasp and point at Taffy.



‘Where are the bad people who speared you, my darling?’ said Teshumai

Tewindrow.



‘There weren’t any,’ said Tegumai. ‘My only visitor this morning was the

poor fellow that you are trying to choke. Aren’t you well, or are you

ill, O Tribe of Tegumai?’



‘He came with a horrible picture,’ said the Head Chief,--‘a picture that

showed you were full of spears.’



‘Er-um-Pr’aps I’d better ‘splain that I gave him that picture,’ said

Taffy, but she did not feel quite comfy.



‘You!’ said the Tribe of Tegumai all together.

‘Small-person-with-no-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked! You?’



‘Taffy dear, I’m afraid we’re in for a little trouble,’ said her Daddy,

and put his arm round her, so she didn’t care.



‘Explain! Explain! Explain!’ said the Head Chief of the Tribe of

Tegumai, and he hopped on one foot.



‘I wanted the Stranger-man to fetch Daddy’s spear, so I drawded it,’

said Taffy. ‘There wasn’t lots of spears. There was only one spear. I

drawded it three times to make sure. I couldn’t help it looking as if it

stuck into Daddy’s head--there wasn’t room on the birch-bark; and those

things that Mummy called bad people are my beavers. I drawded them to

show him the way through the swamp; and I drawded Mummy at the mouth of

the Cave looking pleased because he is a nice Stranger-man, and I think

you are just the stupidest people in the world,’ said Taffy. ‘He is a

very nice man. Why have you filled his hair with mud? Wash him!’



Nobody said anything at all for a longtime, till the Head Chief laughed;

then the Stranger-man (who was at least a Tewara) laughed; then Tegumai

laughed till he fell down flat on the bank; then all the Tribe laughed

more and worse and louder. The only people who did not laugh were

Teshumai Tewindrow and all the Neolithic ladies. They were very polite

to all their husbands, and said ‘Idiot!’ ever so often.



Then the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai cried and said and sang, ‘O

Small-person-with-out-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked, you’ve hit

upon a great invention!’



‘I didn’t intend to; I only wanted Daddy’s black-handled spear,’ said

Taffy.



‘Never mind. It is a great invention, and some day men will call it

writing. At present it is only pictures, and, as we have seen to-day,

pictures are not always properly understood. But a time will come, O

Babe of Tegumai, when we shall make letters--all twenty-six of ‘em,--and

when we shall be able to read as well as to write, and then we shall

always say exactly what we mean without any mistakes. Let the Neolithic

ladies wash the mud out of the stranger’s hair.’



‘I shall be glad of that,’ said Taffy, ‘because, after all, though

you’ve brought every single other spear in the Tribe of Tegumai, you’ve

forgotten my Daddy’s black-handled spear.’



Then the Head Chief cried and said and sang, ‘Taffy dear, the next time

you write a picture-letter, you’d better send a man who can talk our

language with it, to explain what it means. I don’t mind it myself,

because I am a Head Chief, but it’s very bad for the rest of the Tribe

of Tegumai, and, as you can see, it surprises the stranger.’



Then they adopted the Stranger-man (a genuine Tewara of Tewar) into the

Tribe of Tegumai, because he was a gentleman and did not make a fuss

about the mud that the Neolithic ladies had put into his hair. But

from that day to this (and I suppose it is all Taffy’s fault), very few

little girls have ever liked learning to read or write. Most of them

prefer to draw pictures and play about with their Daddies--just like

Taffy.





     THERE runs a road by Merrow Down--

       A grassy track to-day it is

     An hour out of Guildford town,

       Above the river Wey it is.



     Here, when they heard the horse-bells ring,

       The ancient Britons dressed and rode

     To watch the dark Phoenicians bring

       Their goods along the Western Road.



     And here, or hereabouts, they met

       To hold their racial talks and such--

     To barter beads for Whitby jet,

       And tin for gay shell torques and such.



     But long and long before that time

       (When bison used to roam on it)

     Did Taffy and her Daddy climb

       That down, and had their home on it.



     Then beavers built in Broadstone brook

       And made a swamp where Bramley stands:

     And bears from Shere would come and look

       For Taffimai where Shamley stands.



     The Wey, that Taffy called Wagai,

       Was more than six times bigger then;

     And all the Tribe of Tegumai

       They cut a noble figure then!






