“Let me look,” said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and

ankles, and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand. “Indeed he

is not. He is thinner, but he has the very look of my boy.”



The priest was a clever man, and he knew that Messua was wife to the

richest villager in the place. So he looked up at the sky for a minute

and said solemnly: “What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored.

Take the boy into thy house, my sister, and forget not to honor the

priest who sees so far into the lives of men.”



“By the Bull that bought me,” said Mowgli to himself, “but all this

talking is like another looking-over by the Pack! Well, if I am a man, a

man I must become.”



The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut, where there

was a red lacquered bedstead, a great earthen grain chest with funny

raised patterns on it, half a dozen copper cooking pots, an image of a

Hindu god in a little alcove, and on the wall a real looking glass, such

as they sell at the country fairs.



She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread, and then she laid her

hand on his head and looked into his eyes; for she thought perhaps that

he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger had

taken him. So she said, “Nathoo, O Nathoo!” Mowgli did not show that he

knew the name. “Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new

shoes?” She touched his foot, and it was almost as hard as horn. “No,”

 she said sorrowfully, “those feet have never worn shoes, but thou art

very like my Nathoo, and thou shalt be my son.”



Mowgli was uneasy, because he had never been under a roof before. But as

he looked at the thatch, he saw that he could tear it out any time if he

wanted to get away, and that the window had no fastenings. “What is the

good of a man,” he said to himself at last, “if he does not understand

man’s talk? Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the

jungle. I must speak their talk.”



It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the wolves to

imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the grunt of the little

wild pig. So, as soon as Messua pronounced a word Mowgli would imitate

it almost perfectly, and before dark he had learned the names of many

things in the hut.



There was a difficulty at bedtime, because Mowgli would not sleep under

anything that looked so like a panther trap as that hut, and when they

shut the door he went through the window. “Give him his will,” said

Messua’s husband. “Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed.

If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away.”



So Mowgli stretched himself in some long, clean grass at the edge of

the field, but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray nose poked him

under the chin.



“Phew!” said Gray Brother (he was the eldest of Mother Wolf’s cubs).

“This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles. Thou smellest

of wood smoke and cattle--altogether like a man already. Wake, Little

Brother; I bring news.”



“Are all well in the jungle?” said Mowgli, hugging him.



“All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower. Now,

listen. Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows

again, for he is badly singed. When he returns he swears that he will

lay thy bones in the Waingunga.”



“There are two words to that. I also have made a little promise. But

news is always good. I am tired to-night,--very tired with new things,

Gray Brother,--but bring me the news always.”



“Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf? Men will not make thee

forget?” said Gray Brother anxiously.



“Never. I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave. But

also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack.”



“And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack. Men are only men,

Little Brother, and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond. When

I come down here again, I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge

of the grazing-ground.”



For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the village

gate, he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men. First he had

to wear a cloth round him, which annoyed him horribly; and then he had

to learn about money, which he did not in the least understand, and

about plowing, of which he did not see the use. Then the little children

in the village made him very angry. Luckily, the Law of the Jungle had

taught him to keep his temper, for in the jungle life and food depend on

keeping your temper; but when they made fun of him because he would not

play games or fly kites, or because he mispronounced some word, only the

knowledge that it was unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cubs kept him

from picking them up and breaking them in two.



He did not know his own strength in the least. In the jungle he knew he

was weak compared with the beasts, but in the village people said that

he was as strong as a bull.



And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that caste makes

between man and man. When the potter’s donkey slipped in the clay pit,

Mowgli hauled it out by the tail, and helped to stack the pots for their

journey to the market at Khanhiwara. That was very shocking, too, for

the potter is a low-caste man, and his donkey is worse. When the priest

scolded him, Mowgli threatened to put him on the donkey too, and the

priest told Messua’s husband that Mowgli had better be set to work as

soon as possible; and the village head-man told Mowgli that he would

have to go out with the buffaloes next day, and herd them while they

grazed. No one was more pleased than Mowgli; and that night, because he

had been appointed a servant of the village, as it were, he went off

to a circle that met every evening on a masonry platform under a great

fig-tree. It was the village club, and the head-man and the watchman and

the barber, who knew all the gossip of the village, and old Buldeo, the

village hunter, who had a Tower musket, met and smoked. The monkeys

sat and talked in the upper branches, and there was a hole under the

platform where a cobra lived, and he had his little platter of milk

every night because he was sacred; and the old men sat around the tree

and talked, and pulled at the big huqas (the water-pipes) till far into

the night. They told wonderful tales of gods and men and ghosts; and

Buldeo told even more wonderful ones of the ways of beasts in the

jungle, till the eyes of the children sitting outside the circle bulged

out of their heads. Most of the tales were about animals, for the jungle

was always at their door. The deer and the wild pig grubbed up their

crops, and now and again the tiger carried off a man at twilight, within

sight of the village gates.



Mowgli, who naturally knew something about what they were talking of,

had to cover his face not to show that he was laughing, while Buldeo,

the Tower musket across his knees, climbed on from one wonderful story

to another, and Mowgli’s shoulders shook.



Buldeo was explaining how the tiger that had carried away Messua’s son

was a ghost-tiger, and his body was inhabited by the ghost of a wicked,

old money-lender, who had died some years ago. “And I know that this is

true,” he said, “because Purun Dass always limped from the blow that he

got in a riot when his account books were burned, and the tiger that I

speak of he limps, too, for the tracks of his pads are unequal.”



“True, true, that must be the truth,” said the gray-beards, nodding

together.



“Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk?” said Mowgli. “That

tiger limps because he was born lame, as everyone knows. To talk of the

soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal

is child’s talk.”



Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment, and the head-man

stared.



“Oho! It is the jungle brat, is it?” said Buldeo. “If thou art so

wise, better bring his hide to Khanhiwara, for the Government has set

a hundred rupees on his life. Better still, talk not when thy elders

speak.”



Mowgli rose to go. “All the evening I have lain here listening,” he

called back over his shoulder, “and, except once or twice, Buldeo has

not said one word of truth concerning the jungle, which is at his very

doors. How, then, shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and

goblins which he says he has seen?”



“It is full time that boy went to herding,” said the head-man, while

Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli’s impertinence.



The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle

and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning, and bring them back

at night. The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow

themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that

hardly come up to their noses. So long as the boys keep with the herds

they are safe, for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle. But

if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards, they are sometimes

carried off. Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn, sitting

on the back of Rama, the great herd bull. The slaty-blue buffaloes,

with their long, backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes, rose out their

byres, one by one, and followed him, and Mowgli made it very clear to

the children with him that he was the master. He beat the buffaloes with

a long, polished bamboo, and told Kamya, one of the boys, to graze the

cattle by themselves, while he went on with the buffaloes, and to be

very careful not to stray away from the herd.



An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little

ravines, among which the herds scatter and disappear. The buffaloes

generally keep to the pools and muddy places, where they lie wallowing

or basking in the warm mud for hours. Mowgli drove them on to the edge

of the plain where the Waingunga came out of the jungle; then he dropped

from Rama’s neck, trotted off to a bamboo clump, and found Gray Brother.

“Ah,” said Gray Brother, “I have waited here very many days. What is the

meaning of this cattle-herding work?”



“It is an order,” said Mowgli. “I am a village herd for a while. What

news of Shere Khan?”



“He has come back to this country, and has waited here a long time for

thee. Now he has gone off again, for the game is scarce. But he means to

kill thee.”


