Kaa was not a poison snake--in fact he rather despised the poison snakes

as cowards--but his strength lay in his hug, and when he had once

lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no more to be said. “Good

hunting!” cried Baloo, sitting up on his haunches. Like all snakes of

his breed Kaa was rather deaf, and did not hear the call at first. Then

he curled up ready for any accident, his head lowered.



“Good hunting for us all,” he answered. “Oho, Baloo, what dost thou do

here? Good hunting, Bagheera. One of us at least needs food. Is there

any news of game afoot? A doe now, or even a young buck? I am as empty

as a dried well.”



“We are hunting,” said Baloo carelessly. He knew that you must not hurry

Kaa. He is too big.



“Give me permission to come with you,” said Kaa. “A blow more or less is

nothing to thee, Bagheera or Baloo, but I--I have to wait and wait for

days in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a

young ape. Psshaw! The branches are not what they were when I was young.

Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all.”



“Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter,” said

Baloo.



“I am a fair length--a fair length,” said Kaa with a little pride. “But

for all that, it is the fault of this new-grown timber. I came very

near to falling on my last hunt--very near indeed--and the noise of my

slipping, for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree, waked the

Bandar-log, and they called me most evil names.”



“Footless, yellow earth-worm,” said Bagheera under his whiskers, as

though he were trying to remember something.



“Sssss! Have they ever called me that?” said Kaa.



“Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon, but we

never noticed them. They will say anything--even that thou hast lost all

thy teeth, and wilt not face anything bigger than a kid, because (they

are indeed shameless, these Bandar-log)--because thou art afraid of the

he-goat’s horns,” Bagheera went on sweetly.



Now a snake, especially a wary old python like Kaa, very seldom shows

that he is angry, but Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing

muscles on either side of Kaa’s throat ripple and bulge.



“The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds,” he said quietly. “When I

came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops.”



“It--it is the Bandar-log that we follow now,” said Baloo, but the words

stuck in his throat, for that was the first time in his memory that one

of the Jungle-People had owned to being interested in the doings of the

monkeys.



“Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such

hunters--leaders in their own jungle I am certain--on the trail of the

Bandar-log,” Kaa replied courteously, as he swelled with curiosity.



“Indeed,” Baloo began, “I am no more than the old and sometimes very

foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs, and Bagheera

here--”



“Is Bagheera,” said the Black Panther, and his jaws shut with a snap,

for he did not believe in being humble. “The trouble is this, Kaa. Those

nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man-cub of

whom thou hast perhaps heard.”



“I heard some news from Ikki (his quills make him presumptuous) of a

man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack, but I did not believe. Ikki

is full of stories half heard and very badly told.”



“But it is true. He is such a man-cub as never was,” said Baloo. “The

best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs--my own pupil, who shall

make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles; and besides,

I--we--love him, Kaa.”



“Ts! Ts!” said Kaa, weaving his head to and fro. “I also have known what

love is. There are tales I could tell that--”



“That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly,”

 said Bagheera quickly. “Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log

now, and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone.”



“They fear me alone. They have good reason,” said Kaa. “Chattering,

foolish, vain--vain, foolish, and chattering, are the monkeys. But a

man-thing in their hands is in no good luck. They grow tired of the nuts

they pick, and throw them down. They carry a branch half a day, meaning

to do great things with it, and then they snap it in two. That man-thing

is not to be envied. They called me also--`yellow fish’ was it not?”



“Worm--worm--earth-worm,” said Bagheera, “as well as other things which

I cannot now say for shame.”



“We must remind them to speak well of their master. Aaa-ssp! We must

help their wandering memories. Now, whither went they with the cub?”



“The jungle alone knows. Toward the sunset, I believe,” said Baloo. “We

had thought that thou wouldst know, Kaa.”



“I? How? I take them when they come in my way, but I do not hunt the

Bandar-log, or frogs--or green scum on a water-hole, for that matter.”



“Up, Up! Up, Up! Hillo! Illo! Illo, look up, Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf

Pack!”



Baloo looked up to see where the voice came from, and there was Rann the

Kite, sweeping down with the sun shining on the upturned flanges of his

wings. It was near Rann’s bedtime, but he had ranged all over the jungle

looking for the Bear and had missed him in the thick foliage.



“What is it?” said Baloo.



“I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log. He bade me tell you. I

watched. The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey

city--to the Cold Lairs. They may stay there for a night, or ten nights,

or an hour. I have told the bats to watch through the dark time. That is

my message. Good hunting, all you below!”



“Full gorge and a deep sleep to you, Rann,” cried Bagheera. “I will

remember thee in my next kill, and put aside the head for thee alone, O

best of kites!”



“It is nothing. It is nothing. The boy held the Master Word. I could

have done no less,” and Rann circled up again to his roost.



“He has not forgotten to use his tongue,” said Baloo with a chuckle of

pride. “To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the

birds too while he was being pulled across trees!”



“It was most firmly driven into him,” said Bagheera. “But I am proud of

him, and now we must go to the Cold Lairs.”



They all knew where that place was, but few of the Jungle People ever

went there, because what they called the Cold Lairs was an old deserted

city, lost and buried in the jungle, and beasts seldom use a place that

men have once used. The wild boar will, but the hunting tribes do not.

Besides, the monkeys lived there as much as they could be said to live

anywhere, and no self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it

except in times of drought, when the half-ruined tanks and reservoirs

held a little water.



“It is half a night’s journey--at full speed,” said Bagheera, and Baloo

looked very serious. “I will go as fast as I can,” he said anxiously.



“We dare not wait for thee. Follow, Baloo. We must go on the

quick-foot--Kaa and I.”



“Feet or no feet, I can keep abreast of all thy four,” said Kaa shortly.

Baloo made one effort to hurry, but had to sit down panting, and so they

left him to come on later, while Bagheera hurried forward, at the quick

panther-canter. Kaa said nothing, but, strive as Bagheera might, the

huge Rock-python held level with him. When they came to a hill stream,

Bagheera gained, because he bounded across while Kaa swam, his head and

two feet of his neck clearing the water, but on level ground Kaa made up

the distance.



“By the Broken Lock that freed me,” said Bagheera, when twilight had

fallen, “thou art no slow goer!”



“I am hungry,” said Kaa. “Besides, they called me speckled frog.”



“Worm--earth-worm, and yellow to boot.”



“All one. Let us go on,” and Kaa seemed to pour himself along the

ground, finding the shortest road with his steady eyes, and keeping to

it.



In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People were not thinking of Mowgli’s

friends at all. They had brought the boy to the Lost City, and were

very much pleased with themselves for the time. Mowgli had never seen an

Indian city before, and though this was almost a heap of ruins it seemed

very wonderful and splendid. Some king had built it long ago on a little

hill. You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the

ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn, rusted

hinges. Trees had grown into and out of the walls; the battlements were

tumbled down and decayed, and wild creepers hung out of the windows of

the towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps.



A great roofless palace crowned the hill, and the marble of the

courtyards and the fountains was split, and stained with red and green,

and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the king’s elephants

used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees.

From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that

made up the city looking like empty honeycombs filled with blackness;

the shapeless block of stone that had been an idol in the square where

four roads met; the pits and dimples at street corners where the public

wells once stood, and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs

sprouting on their sides. The monkeys called the place their city, and

pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the forest.

And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to

use them. They would sit in circles on the hall of the king’s council

chamber, and scratch for fleas and pretend to be men; or they would run

in and out of the roofless houses and collect pieces of plaster and old

bricks in a corner, and forget where they had hidden them, and fight

and cry in scuffling crowds, and then break off to play up and down the

terraces of the king’s garden, where they would shake the rose trees and

the oranges in sport to see the fruit and flowers fall. They explored

all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of

little dark rooms, but they never remembered what they had seen and what

they had not; and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling

each other that they were doing as men did. They drank at the tanks and

made the water all muddy, and then they fought over it, and then they

would all rush together in mobs and shout: “There is no one in the

jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the

Bandar-log.” Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city

and went back to the tree-tops, hoping the Jungle-People would notice

them.



Mowgli, who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle, did not like

or understand this kind of life. The monkeys dragged him into the Cold

Lairs late in the afternoon, and instead of going to sleep, as Mowgli

would have done after a long journey, they joined hands and danced about

and sang their foolish songs. One of the monkeys made a speech and told

his companions that Mowgli’s capture marked a new thing in the history

of the Bandar-log, for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks

and canes together as a protection against rain and cold. Mowgli picked

up some creepers and began to work them in and out, and the monkeys

tried to imitate; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began

to pull their friends’ tails or jump up and down on all fours, coughing.



“I wish to eat,” said Mowgli. “I am a stranger in this part of the

jungle. Bring me food, or give me leave to hunt here.”



Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild

pawpaws. But they fell to fighting on the road, and it was too much

trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit. Mowgli was sore and

angry as well as hungry, and he roamed through the empty city giving the

Strangers’ Hunting Call from time to time, but no one answered him, and

Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed. “All that Baloo

has said about the Bandar-log is true,” he thought to himself. “They

have no Law, no Hunting Call, and no leaders--nothing but foolish words

and little picking thievish hands. So if I am starved or killed here,

it will be all my own fault. But I must try to return to my own jungle.

Baloo will surely beat me, but that is better than chasing silly rose

leaves with the Bandar-log.”



No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him

back, telling him that he did not know how happy he was, and pinching

him to make him grateful. He set his teeth and said nothing, but

went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone

reservoirs that were half-full of rain water. There was a ruined

summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace, built for

queens dead a hundred years ago. The domed roof had half fallen in and

blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the

queens used to enter. But the walls were made of screens of marble

tracery--beautiful milk-white fretwork, set with agates and cornelians

and jasper and lapis lazuli, and as the moon came up behind the hill it

shone through the open work, casting shadows on the ground like black

velvet embroidery. Sore, sleepy, and hungry as he was, Mowgli could not

help laughing when the Bandar-log began, twenty at a time, to tell him

how great and wise and strong and gentle they were, and how foolish he

was to wish to leave them. “We are great. We are free. We are wonderful.

We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle! We all say so, and

so it must be true,” they shouted. “Now as you are a new listener and

can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us

in future, we will tell you all about our most excellent selves.” Mowgli

made no objection, and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on

the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing the praises of the

Bandar-log, and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they would

all shout together: “This is true; we all say so.” Mowgli nodded and

blinked, and said “Yes” when they asked him a question, and his head

spun with the noise. “Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these

people,” he said to himself, “and now they have madness. Certainly this

is dewanee, the madness. Do they never go to sleep? Now there is a cloud

coming to cover that moon. If it were only a big enough cloud I might

try to run away in the darkness. But I am tired.”


