The General nearly had a fit, while Miss Youghal was sobbing out the

story of the disguise and the engagement that wasn’t recognized by the

parents. Strickland was furiously angry with himself and more angry

with the General for forcing his hand; so he said nothing, but held

the horse’s head and prepared to thrash the General as some sort of

satisfaction, but when the General had thoroughly grasped the story, and

knew who Strickland was, he began to puff and blow in the saddle, and

nearly rolled off with laughing. He said Strickland deserved a V. C.,

if it were only for putting on a sais’s blanket. Then he called himself

names, and vowed that he deserved a thrashing, but he was too old to

take it from Strickland. Then he complimented Miss Youghal on her lover.

The scandal of the business never struck him; for he was a nice old man,

with a weakness for flirtations. Then he laughed again, and said

that old Youghal was a fool. Strickland let go of the cob’s head,

and suggested that the General had better help them, if that was his

opinion. Strickland knew Youghal’s weakness for men with titles and

letters after their names and high official position. “It’s rather like

a forty-minute farce,” said the General, “but begad, I WILL help, if

it’s only to escape that tremendous thrashing I deserved. Go along

to your home, my sais-Policeman, and change into decent kit, and I’ll

attack Mr. Youghal. Miss Youghal, may I ask you to canter home and wait?”

About seven minutes later, there was a wild hurroosh at the Club. A

sais, with a blanket and head-rope, was asking all the men he knew: “For

Heaven’s sake lend me decent clothes!” As the men did not recognize him,

there were some peculiar scenes before Strickland could get a hot bath,

with soda in it, in one room, a shirt here, a collar there, a pair

of trousers elsewhere, and so on. He galloped off, with half the Club

wardrobe on his back, and an utter stranger’s pony under him, to the

house of old Youghal. The General, arrayed in purple and fine linen, was

before him. What the General had said Strickland never knew, but Youghal

received Strickland with moderate civility; and Mrs. Youghal, touched

by the devotion of the transformed Dulloo, was almost kind. The General

beamed, and chuckled, and Miss Youghal came in, and almost before old

Youghal knew where he was, the parental consent had been wrenched out

and Strickland had departed with Miss Youghal to the Telegraph Office

to wire for his kit. The final embarrassment was when an utter stranger

attacked him on the Mall and asked for the stolen pony.



So, in the end, Strickland and Miss Youghal were married, on the strict

understanding that Strickland should drop his old ways, and stick to

Departmental routine, which pays best and leads to Simla. Strickland

was far too fond of his wife, just then, to break his word, but it was

a sore trial to him; for the streets and the bazars, and the sounds in

them, were full of meaning to Strickland, and these called to him to

come back and take up his wanderings and his discoveries. Some day, I

will tell you how he broke his promise to help a friend. That was long

since, and he has, by this time, been nearly spoilt for what he would

call shikar. He is forgetting the slang, and the beggar’s cant, and the

marks, and the signs, and the drift of the undercurrents, which, if a

man would master, he must always continue to learn.



But he fills in his Departmental returns beautifully.









YOKED WITH AN UNBELIEVER.





     I am dying for you, and you are dying for another.



                                       Punjabi Proverb.





When the Gravesend tender left the P. & O. steamer for Bombay and went

back to catch the train to Town, there were many people in it crying.

But the one who wept most, and most openly was Miss Agnes Laiter. She

had reason to cry, because the only man she ever loved--or ever could

love, so she said--was going out to India; and India, as every one

knows, is divided equally between jungle, tigers, cobras, cholera, and

sepoys.



Phil Garron, leaning over the side of the steamer in the rain, felt very

unhappy too; but he did not cry. He was sent out to “tea.” What “tea”

 meant he had not the vaguest idea, but fancied that he would have to

ride on a prancing horse over hills covered with tea-vines, and draw a

sumptuous salary for doing so; and he was very grateful to his uncle

for getting him the berth. He was really going to reform all his slack,

shiftless ways, save a large proportion of his magnificent salary

yearly, and, in a very short time, return to marry Agnes Laiter. Phil

Garron had been lying loose on his friends’ hands for three years, and,

as he had nothing to do, he naturally fell in love. He was very nice;

but he was not strong in his views and opinions and principles, and

though he never came to actual grief his friends were thankful when

he said good-bye, and went out to this mysterious “tea” business near

Darjiling. They said:--“God bless you, dear boy! Let us never see your

face again,”--or at least that was what Phil was given to understand.



When he sailed, he was very full of a great plan to prove himself

several hundred times better than any one had given him credit for--to

work like a horse, and triumphantly marry Agnes Laiter. He had many good

points besides his good looks; his only fault being that he was weak,

the least little bit in the world weak. He had as much notion of economy

as the Morning Sun; and yet you could not lay your hand on any one item,

and say: “Herein Phil Garron is extravagant or reckless.” Nor could

you point out any particular vice in his character; but he was

“unsatisfactory” and as workable as putty.



Agnes Laiter went about her duties at home--her family objected to the

engagement--with red eyes, while Phil was sailing to Darjiling--“a port

on the Bengal Ocean,” as his mother used to tell her friends. He was

popular enough on board ship, made many acquaintances and a moderately

large liquor bill, and sent off huge letters to Agnes Laiter at each

port. Then he fell to work on this plantation, somewhere between

Darjiling and Kangra, and, though the salary and the horse and the work

were not quite all he had fancied, he succeeded fairly well, and gave

himself much unnecessary credit for his perseverance.



In the course of time, as he settled more into collar, and his work grew

fixed before him, the face of Agnes Laiter went out of his mind and only

came when he was at leisure, which was not often. He would forget

all about her for a fortnight, and remember her with a start, like a

school-boy who has forgotten to learn his lesson. She did not forget

Phil, because she was of the kind that never forgets. Only, another

man--a really desirable young man--presented himself before Mrs. Laiter;

and the chance of a marriage with Phil was as far off as ever; and

his letters were so unsatisfactory; and there was a certain amount of

domestic pressure brought to bear on the girl; and the young man really

was an eligible person as incomes go; and the end of all things was that

Agnes married him, and wrote a tempestuous whirlwind of a letter to Phil

in the wilds of Darjiling, and said she should never know a happy moment

all the rest of her life. Which was a true prophecy.



Phil got that letter, and held himself ill-treated. This was two years

after he had come out; but by dint of thinking fixedly of Agnes Laiter,

and looking at her photograph, and patting himself on the back for being

one of the most constant lovers in history, and warming to the work as

he went on, he really fancied that he had been very hardly used. He sat

down and wrote one final letter--a really pathetic “world without end,

amen,” epistle; explaining how he would be true to Eternity, and that

all women were very much alike, and he would hide his broken heart,

etc., etc.; but if, at any future time, etc., etc., he could afford to

wait, etc., etc., unchanged affections, etc., etc., return to her old

love, etc., etc., for eight closely-written pages. From an artistic

point of view, it was very neat work, but an ordinary Philistine, who

knew the state of Phil’s real feelings--not the ones he rose to as he

went on writing--would have called it the thoroughly mean and selfish

work of a thoroughly mean and selfish, weak man. But this verdict would

have been incorrect. Phil paid for the postage, and felt every word he

had written for at least two days and a half. It was the last flicker

before the light went out.



That letter made Agnes Laiter very unhappy, and she cried and put it

away in her desk, and became Mrs. Somebody Else for the good of her

family. Which is the first duty of every Christian maid.



Phil went his ways, and thought no more of his letter, except as an

artist thinks of a neatly touched-in sketch. His ways were not bad, but

they were not altogether good until they brought him across Dunmaya, the

daughter of a Rajput ex-Subadar-Major of our Native Army. The girl had a

strain of Hill blood in her, and, like the Hill women, was not a purdah

nashin. Where Phil met her, or how he heard of her, does not matter. She

was a good girl and handsome, and, in her way, very clever and shrewd;

though, of course, a little hard. It is to be remembered that Phil was

living very comfortably, denying himself no small luxury, never putting

by an anna, very satisfied with himself and his good intentions, was

dropping all his English correspondents one by one, and beginning more

and more to look upon this land as his home. Some men fall this way; and

they are of no use afterwards. The climate where he was stationed was

good, and it really did not seem to him that there was anything to go

Home for.
