Next night Cat walked through the Wet Wild Woods and hid very near the

Cave till morning-time, and Man and Dog and Horse went hunting. The

Woman was busy cooking that morning, and the Baby cried and interrupted.

So she carried him outside the Cave and gave him a handful of pebbles to

play with. But still the Baby cried.



Then the Cat put out his paddy paw and patted the Baby on the cheek, and

it cooed; and the Cat rubbed against its fat knees and tickled it under

its fat chin with his tail. And the Baby laughed; and the Woman heard

him and smiled.



Then the Bat--the little upside-down bat--that hung in the mouth of the

Cave said, ‘O my Hostess and Wife of my Host and Mother of my Host’s

Son, a Wild Thing from the Wild Woods is most beautifully playing with

your Baby.’



‘A blessing on that Wild Thing whoever he may be,’ said the Woman,

straightening her back, ‘for I was a busy woman this morning and he has

done me a service.’



That very minute and second, Best Beloved, the dried horse-skin

Curtain that was stretched tail-down at the mouth of the Cave fell

down--whoosh!--because it remembered the bargain she had made with the

Cat, and when the Woman went to pick it up--lo and behold!--the Cat was

sitting quite comfy inside the Cave.



‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,

‘it is I: for you have spoken a word in my praise, and now I can sit

within the Cave for always and always and always. But still I am the Cat

who walks by himself, and all places are alike to me.’



The Woman was very angry, and shut her lips tight and took up her

spinning-wheel and began to spin. But the Baby cried because the Cat had

gone away, and the Woman could not hush it, for it struggled and kicked

and grew black in the face.



‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,

‘take a strand of the wire that you are spinning and tie it to your

spinning-whorl and drag it along the floor, and I will show you a magic

that shall make your Baby laugh as loudly as he is now crying.’



‘I will do so,’ said the Woman, ‘because I am at my wits’ end; but I

will not thank you for it.’



She tied the thread to the little clay spindle whorl and drew it across

the floor, and the Cat ran after it and patted it with his paws and

rolled head over heels, and tossed it backward over his shoulder and

chased it between his hind-legs and pretended to lose it, and pounced

down upon it again, till the Baby laughed as loudly as it had been

crying, and scrambled after the Cat and frolicked all over the Cave till

it grew tired and settled down to sleep with the Cat in its arms.



‘Now,’ said the Cat, ‘I will sing the Baby a song that shall keep him

asleep for an hour. And he began to purr, loud and low, low and loud,

till the Baby fell fast asleep. The Woman smiled as she looked down upon

the two of them and said, ‘That was wonderfully done. No question but

you are very clever, O Cat.’



That very minute and second, Best Beloved, the smoke of the fire at the

back of the Cave came down in clouds from the roof--puff!--because

it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat, and when it had

cleared away--lo and behold!--the Cat was sitting quite comfy close to

the fire.



‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of My Enemy,’ said the Cat,

‘it is I, for you have spoken a second word in my praise, and now I can

sit by the warm fire at the back of the Cave for always and always and

always. But still I am the Cat who walks by himself, and all places are

alike to me.’



Then the Woman was very very angry, and let down her hair and put more

wood on the fire and brought out the broad blade-bone of the shoulder of

mutton and began to make a Magic that should prevent her from saying

a third word in praise of the Cat. It was not a Singing Magic, Best

Beloved, it was a Still Magic; and by and by the Cave grew so still that

a little wee-wee mouse crept out of a corner and ran across the floor.



‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,

‘is that little mouse part of your magic?’



‘Ouh! Chee! No indeed!’ said the Woman, and she dropped the blade-bone

and jumped upon the footstool in front of the fire and braided up her

hair very quick for fear that the mouse should run up it.



‘Ah,’ said the Cat, watching, ‘then the mouse will do me no harm if I

eat it?’



‘No,’ said the Woman, braiding up her hair, ‘eat it quickly and I will

ever be grateful to you.’



Cat made one jump and caught the little mouse, and the Woman said,

‘A hundred thanks. Even the First Friend is not quick enough to catch

little mice as you have done. You must be very wise.’



That very moment and second, O Best Beloved, the Milk-pot that stood by

the fire cracked in two pieces--ffft--because it remembered the bargain

she had made with the Cat, and when the Woman jumped down from the

footstool--lo and behold!--the Cat was lapping up the warm white milk

that lay in one of the broken pieces.



‘O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy, said the Cat,

‘it is I; for you have spoken three words in my praise, and now I can

drink the warm white milk three times a day for always and always and

always. But still I am the Cat who walks by himself, and all places are

alike to me.’



Then the Woman laughed and set the Cat a bowl of the warm white milk and

said, ‘O Cat, you are as clever as a man, but remember that your bargain

was not made with the Man or the Dog, and I do not know what they will

do when they come home.’



‘What is that to me?’ said the Cat. ‘If I have my place in the Cave by

the fire and my warm white milk three times a day I do not care what the

Man or the Dog can do.’



That evening when the Man and the Dog came into the Cave, the Woman

told them all the story of the bargain while the Cat sat by the fire and

smiled. Then the Man said, ‘Yes, but he has not made a bargain with me

or with all proper Men after me.’ Then he took off his two leather boots

and he took up his little stone axe (that makes three) and he fetched a

piece of wood and a hatchet (that is five altogether), and he set them

out in a row and he said, ‘Now we will make our bargain. If you do not

catch mice when you are in the Cave for always and always and always, I

will throw these five things at you whenever I see you, and so shall all

proper Men do after me.’



‘Ah,’ said the Woman, listening, ‘this is a very clever Cat, but he is

not so clever as my Man.’



The Cat counted the five things (and they looked very knobby) and he

said, ‘I will catch mice when I am in the Cave for always and always and

always; but still I am the Cat who walks by himself, and all places are

alike to me.’



‘Not when I am near,’ said the Man. ‘If you had not said that last I

would have put all these things away for always and always and always;

but I am now going to throw my two boots and my little stone axe (that

makes three) at you whenever I meet you. And so shall all proper Men do

after me!’



Then the Dog said, ‘Wait a minute. He has not made a bargain with me or

with all proper Dogs after me.’ And he showed his teeth and said, ‘If

you are not kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave for always and

always and always, I will hunt you till I catch you, and when I catch

you I will bite you. And so shall all proper Dogs do after me.’



‘Ah,’ said the Woman, listening, ‘this is a very clever Cat, but he is

not so clever as the Dog.’



Cat counted the Dog’s teeth (and they looked very pointed) and he said,

‘I will be kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave, as long as he does

not pull my tail too hard, for always and always and always. But still I

am the Cat that walks by himself, and all places are alike to me.’



‘Not when I am near,’ said the Dog. ‘If you had not said that last I

would have shut my mouth for always and always and always; but now I am

going to hunt you up a tree whenever I meet you. And so shall all proper

Dogs do after me.’



Then the Man threw his two boots and his little stone axe (that makes

three) at the Cat, and the Cat ran out of the Cave and the Dog chased

him up a tree; and from that day to this, Best Beloved, three proper Men

out of five will always throw things at a Cat whenever they meet him,

and all proper Dogs will chase him up a tree. But the Cat keeps his side

of the bargain too. He will kill mice and he will be kind to Babies when

he is in the house, just as long as they do not pull his tail too hard.

But when he has done that, and between times, and when the moon gets up

and night comes, he is the Cat that walks by himself, and all places are

alike to him. Then he goes out to the Wet Wild Woods or up the Wet Wild

Trees or on the Wet Wild Roofs, waving his wild tail and walking by his

wild lone.


