He did what many planters have done before him--that is to say, he

made up his mind to marry a Hill girl and settle down. He was seven and

twenty then, with a long life before him, but no spirit to go through

with it. So he married Dunmaya by the forms of the English Church, and

some fellow-planters said he was a fool, and some said he was a

wise man. Dunmaya was a thoroughly honest girl, and, in spite of her

reverence for an Englishman, had a reasonable estimate of her husband’s

weaknesses. She managed him tenderly, and became, in less than a year, a

very passable imitation of an English lady in dress and carriage. [It

is curious to think that a Hill man, after a lifetime’s education, is

a Hill man still; but a Hill woman can in six months master most of the

ways of her English sisters. There was a coolie woman once. But that is

another story.] Dunmaya dressed by preference in black and yellow, and

looked well.



Meantime the letter lay in Agnes’s desk, and now and again she would

think of poor resolute hard-working Phil among the cobras and tigers of

Darjiling, toiling in the vain hope that she might come back to him. Her

husband was worth ten Phils, except that he had rheumatism of the

heart. Three years after he was married--and after he had tried Nice

and Algeria for his complaint--he went to Bombay, where he died, and set

Agnes free. Being a devout woman, she looked on his death and the

place of it, as a direct interposition of Providence, and when she had

recovered from the shock, she took out and reread Phil’s letter with the

“etc., etc.,” and the big dashes, and the little dashes, and kissed it

several times. No one knew her in Bombay; she had her husband’s income,

which was a large one, and Phil was close at hand. It was wrong and

improper, of course, but she decided, as heroines do in novels, to find

her old lover, to offer him her hand and her gold, and with him spend

the rest of her life in some spot far from unsympathetic souls. She sat

for two months, alone in Watson’s Hotel, elaborating this decision, and

the picture was a pretty one. Then she set out in search of Phil Garron,

Assistant on a tea plantation with a more than usually unpronounceable

name.

She found him. She spent a month over it, for his plantation was not in

the Darjiling district at all, but nearer Kangra. Phil was very little

altered, and Dunmaya was very nice to her.



Now the particular sin and shame of the whole business is that Phil, who

really is not worth thinking of twice, was and is loved by Dunmaya,

and more than loved by Agnes, the whole of whose life he seems to have

spoilt.



Worst of all, Dunmaya is making a decent man of him; and he will be

ultimately saved from perdition through her training.



Which is manifestly unfair.









FALSE DAWN.





     To-night God knows what thing shall tide,

       The Earth is racked and faint--

     Expectant, sleepless, open-eyed;

     And we, who from the Earth were made,

       Thrill with our Mother’s pain.



                                In Durance.





No man will ever know the exact truth of this story; though women may

sometimes whisper it to one another after a dance, when they are putting

up their hair for the night and comparing lists of victims. A man, of

course, cannot assist at these functions. So the tale must be told from

the outside--in the dark--all wrong.



Never praise a sister to a sister, in the hope of your compliments

reaching the proper ears, and so preparing the way for you later on.

Sisters are women first, and sisters afterwards; and you will find that

you do yourself harm.



Saumarez knew this when he made up his mind to propose to the elder Miss

Copleigh. Saumarez was a strange man, with few merits, so far as men

could see, though he was popular with women, and carried enough

conceit to stock a Viceroy’s Council and leave a little over for the

Commander-in-Chief’s Staff. He was a Civilian. Very many women took an

interest in Saumarez, perhaps, because his manner to them was offensive.

If you hit a pony over the nose at the outset of your acquaintance, he

may not love you, but he will take a deep interest in your movements

ever afterwards. The elder Miss Copleigh was nice, plump, winning and

pretty. The younger was not so pretty, and, from men disregarding the

hint set forth above, her style was repellant and unattractive. Both

girls had, practically, the same figure, and there was a strong likeness

between them in look and voice; though no one could doubt for an instant

which was the nicer of the two.



Saumarez made up his mind, as soon as they came into the station from

Behar, to marry the elder one. At least, we all made sure that he

would, which comes to the same thing. She was two and twenty, and he was

thirty-three, with pay and allowances of nearly fourteen hundred rupees

a month. So the match, as we arranged it, was in every way a good one.

Saumarez was his name, and summary was his nature, as a man once said.

Having drafted his Resolution, he formed a Select Committee of One to

sit upon it, and resolved to take his time. In our unpleasant slang, the

Copleigh girls “hunted in couples.” That is to say, you could do nothing

with one without the other. They were very loving sisters; but

their mutual affection was sometimes inconvenient. Saumarez held the

balance-hair true between them, and none but himself could have said to

which side his heart inclined; though every one guessed. He rode

with them a good deal and danced with them, but he never succeeded in

detaching them from each other for any length of time.



Women said that the two girls kept together through deep mistrust, each

fearing that the other would steal a march on her. But that has

nothing to do with a man. Saumarez was silent for good or bad, and as

business-likely attentive as he could be, having due regard to his work

and his polo. Beyond doubt both girls were fond of him.



As the hot weather drew nearer, and Saumarez made no sign, women said

that you could see their trouble in the eyes of the girls--that they

were looking strained, anxious, and irritable. Men are quite blind in

these matters unless they have more of the woman than the man in their

composition, in which case it does not matter what they say or think.

I maintain it was the hot April days that took the color out of the

Copleigh girls’ cheeks. They should have been sent to the Hills

early. No one--man or woman--feels an angel when the hot weather is

approaching. The younger sister grew more cynical--not to say acid--in

her ways; and the winningness of the elder wore thin. There was more

effort in it.



Now the Station wherein all these things happened was, though not

a little one, off the line of rail, and suffered through want of

attention. There were no gardens or bands or amusements worth speaking

of, and it was nearly a day’s journey to come into Lahore for a dance.

People were grateful for small things to interest them.



About the beginning of May, and just before the final exodus of

Hill-goers, when the weather was very hot and there were not more than

twenty people in the Station, Saumarez gave a moonlight riding-picnic at

an old tomb, six miles away, near the bed of the river. It was a “Noah’s

Ark” picnic; and there was to be the usual arrangement of quarter-mile

intervals between each couple, on account of the dust. Six couples came

altogether, including chaperons. Moonlight picnics are useful just at

the very end of the season, before all the girls go away to the Hills.

They lead to understandings, and should be encouraged by chaperones;

especially those whose girls look sweetish in riding habits. I knew a

case once. But that is another story. That picnic was called the “Great

Pop Picnic,” because every one knew Saumarez would propose then to the

eldest Miss Copleigh; and, beside his affair, there was another which

might possibly come to happiness. The social atmosphere was heavily

charged and wanted clearing.



We met at the parade-ground at ten: the night was fearfully hot. The

horses sweated even at walking-pace, but anything was better than

sitting still in our own dark houses. When we moved off under the full

moon we were four couples, one triplet, and Mr. Saumarez rode with the

Copleigh girls, and I loitered at the tail of the procession, wondering

with whom Saumarez would ride home. Every one was happy and contented;

but we all felt that things were going to happen. We rode slowly: and

it was nearly midnight before we reached the old tomb, facing the ruined

tank, in the decayed gardens where we were going to eat and drink. I

was late in coming up; and before I went into the garden, I saw that the

horizon to the north carried a faint, dun-colored feather. But no one

would have thanked me for spoiling so well-managed an entertainment as

this picnic--and a dust-storm, more or less, does no great harm.



We gathered by the tank. Some one had brought out a banjo--which is a

most sentimental instrument--and three or four of us sang. You must not

laugh at this. Our amusements in out-of-the-way Stations are very few

indeed. Then we talked in groups or together, lying under the trees,

with the sun-baked roses dropping their petals on our feet, until supper

was ready. It was a beautiful supper, as cold and as iced as you could

wish; and we stayed long over it.



I had felt that the air was growing hotter and hotter; but nobody

seemed to notice it until the moon went out and a burning hot wind began

lashing the orange-trees with a sound like the noise of the sea. Before

we knew where we were, the dust-storm was on us, and everything was

roaring, whirling darkness. The supper-table was blown bodily into the

tank. We were afraid of staying anywhere near the old tomb for fear it

might be blown down. So we felt our way to the orange-trees where the

horses were picketed and waited for the storm to blow over. Then the

little light that was left vanished, and you could not see your hand

before your face. The air was heavy with dust and sand from the bed

of the river, that filled boots and pockets and drifted down necks and

coated eyebrows and moustaches. It was one of the worst dust-storms of

the year. We were all huddled together close to the trembling horses,

with the thunder clattering overhead, and the lightning spurting like

water from a sluice, all ways at once. There was no danger, of course,

unless the horses broke loose. I was standing with my head downward and

my hands over my mouth, hearing the trees thrashing each other. I could

not see who was next me till the flashes came. Then I found that I was

packed near Saumarez and the eldest Miss Copleigh, with my own horse

just in front of me. I recognized the eldest Miss Copleigh, because

she had a pagri round her helmet, and the younger had not. All the

electricity in the air had gone into my body and I was quivering and

tingling from head to foot--exactly as a corn shoots and tingles before

rain. It was a grand storm. The wind seemed to be picking up the earth

and pitching it to leeward in great heaps; and the heat beat up from the

ground like the heat of the Day of Judgment.



The storm lulled slightly after the first half-hour, and I heard a

despairing little voice close to my ear, saying to itself, quietly and

softly, as if some lost soul were flying about with the wind: “O my

God!” Then the younger Miss Copleigh stumbled into my arms, saying:

“Where is my horse? Get my horse. I want to go home. I WANT to go home.

Take me home.”



I thought that the lightning and the black darkness had frightened her;

so I said there was no danger, but she must wait till the storm blew

over. She answered: “It is not THAT! It is not THAT! I want to go home!

O take me away from here!”



I said that she could not go till the light came; but I felt her brush

past me and go away. It was too dark to see where. Then the whole sky

was split open with one tremendous flash, as if the end of the world

were coming, and all the women shrieked.



Almost directly after this, I felt a man’s hand on my shoulder and heard

Saumarez bellowing in my ear. Through the rattling of the trees and

howling of the wind, I did not catch his words at once, but at last

I heard him say: “I’ve proposed to the wrong one! What shall I do?”

 Saumarez had no occasion to make this confidence to me. I was never a

friend of his, nor am I now; but I fancy neither of us were ourselves

just then. He was shaking as he stood with excitement, and I was feeling

queer all over with the electricity. I could not think of anything to

say except:--“More fool you for proposing in a dust-storm.” But I did

not see how that would improve the mistake.



Then he shouted: “Where’s Edith--Edith Copleigh?” Edith was the youngest

sister. I answered out of my astonishment:--“What do you want with HER?”

 Would you believe it, for the next two minutes, he and I were shouting

at each other like maniacs--he vowing that it was the youngest sister he

had meant to propose to all along, and I telling him till my throat

was hoarse that he must have made a mistake! I can’t account for

this except, again, by the fact that we were neither of us ourselves.

Everything seemed to me like a bad dream--from the stamping of the

horses in the darkness to Saumarez telling me the story of his loving

Edith Copleigh since the first. He was still clawing my shoulder and

begging me to tell him where Edith Copleigh was, when another lull came

and brought light with it, and we saw the dust-cloud forming on the

plain in front of us. So we knew the worst was over. The moon was low

down, and there was just the glimmer of the false dawn that comes about

an hour before the real one. But the light was very faint, and the dun

cloud roared like a bull. I wondered where Edith Copleigh had gone; and

as I was wondering I saw three things together: First Maud Copleigh’s

face come smiling out of the darkness and move towards Saumarez, who was

standing by me. I heard the girl whisper, “George,” and slide her arm

through the arm that was not clawing my shoulder, and I saw that look

on her face which only comes once or twice in a lifetime-when a woman

is perfectly happy and the air is full of trumpets and gorgeous-colored

fire and the Earth turns into cloud because she loves and is loved. At

the same time, I saw Saumarez’s face as he heard Maud Copleigh’s voice,

and fifty yards away from the clump of orange-trees I saw a brown

holland habit getting upon a horse.



It must have been my state of over-excitement that made me so quick

to meddle with what did not concern me. Saumarez was moving off to the

habit; but I pushed him back and said:--“Stop here and explain. I’ll

fetch her back!” and I ran out to get at my own horse. I had a perfectly

unnecessary notion that everything must be done decently and in order,

and that Saumarez’s first care was to wipe the happy look out of Maud

Copleigh’s face. All the time I was linking up the curb-chain I wondered

how he would do it.


