And the Leopard scratched his head and said, ‘It ought to be ‘sclusively

a delicate greyish-fawn, and it ought to be Zebra; but it is covered

all over with black and purple stripes. What in the world have you been

doing to yourself, Zebra? Don’t you know that if you were on the High

Veldt I could see you ten miles off? You haven’t any form.’



‘Yes,’ said the Zebra, ‘but this isn’t the High Veldt. Can’t you see?’



‘I can now,’ said the Leopard. ‘But I couldn’t all yesterday. How is it

done?’



‘Let us up,’ said the Zebra, ‘and we will show you.



They let the Zebra and the Giraffe get up; and Zebra moved away to some

little thorn-bushes where the sunlight fell all stripy, and Giraffe

moved off to some tallish trees where the shadows fell all blotchy.



‘Now watch,’ said the Zebra and the Giraffe. ‘This is the way it’s done.

One--two--three! And where’s your breakfast?’



Leopard stared, and Ethiopian stared, but all they could see were stripy

shadows and blotched shadows in the forest, but never a sign of Zebra

and Giraffe. They had just walked off and hidden themselves in the

shadowy forest.



‘Hi! Hi!’ said the Ethiopian. ‘That’s a trick worth learning. Take a

lesson by it, Leopard. You show up in this dark place like a bar of soap

in a coal-scuttle.’



‘Ho! Ho!’ said the Leopard. ‘Would it surprise you very much to know

that you show up in this dark place like a mustard-plaster on a sack of

coals?’



‘Well, calling names won’t catch dinner, said the Ethiopian. ‘The long

and the little of it is that we don’t match our backgrounds. I’m going

to take Baviaan’s advice. He told me I ought to change; and as I’ve

nothing to change except my skin I’m going to change that.’



‘What to?’ said the Leopard, tremendously excited.



‘To a nice working blackish-brownish colour, with a little purple in

it, and touches of slaty-blue. It will be the very thing for hiding in

hollows and behind trees.’



So he changed his skin then and there, and the Leopard was more excited

than ever; he had never seen a man change his skin before.



‘But what about me?’ he said, when the Ethiopian had worked his last

little finger into his fine new black skin.



‘You take Baviaan’s advice too. He told you to go into spots.’



‘So I did,’ said the Leopard. I went into other spots as fast as I

could. I went into this spot with you, and a lot of good it has done

me.’



‘Oh,’ said the Ethiopian, ‘Baviaan didn’t mean spots in South Africa. He

meant spots on your skin.’



‘What’s the use of that?’ said the Leopard.



‘Think of Giraffe,’ said the Ethiopian. ‘Or if you prefer stripes,

think of Zebra. They find their spots and stripes give them per-feet

satisfaction.’



‘Umm,’ said the Leopard. ‘I wouldn’t look like Zebra--not for ever so.’



‘Well, make up your mind,’ said the Ethiopian, ‘because I’d hate to

go hunting without you, but I must if you insist on looking like a

sun-flower against a tarred fence.’



‘I’ll take spots, then,’ said the Leopard; ‘but don’t make ‘em too

vulgar-big. I wouldn’t look like Giraffe--not for ever so.’



‘I’ll make ‘em with the tips of my fingers,’ said the Ethiopian.

‘There’s plenty of black left on my skin still. Stand over!’



Then the Ethiopian put his five fingers close together (there was plenty

of black left on his new skin still) and pressed them all over the

Leopard, and wherever the five fingers touched they left five little

black marks, all close together. You can see them on any Leopard’s skin

you like, Best Beloved. Sometimes the fingers slipped and the marks got

a little blurred; but if you look closely at any Leopard now you will

see that there are always five spots--off five fat black finger-tips.



‘Now you are a beauty!’ said the Ethiopian. ‘You can lie out on the bare

ground and look like a heap of pebbles. You can lie out on the naked

rocks and look like a piece of pudding-stone. You can lie out on a leafy

branch and look like sunshine sifting through the leaves; and you

can lie right across the centre of a path and look like nothing in

particular. Think of that and purr!’



‘But if I’m all this,’ said the Leopard, ‘why didn’t you go spotty too?’



‘Oh, plain black’s best for a nigger,’ said the Ethiopian. ‘Now come

along and we’ll see if we can’t get even with Mr. One-Two-Three Where’s

your Breakfast!’



So they went away and lived happily ever afterward, Best Beloved. That

is all.



Oh, now and then you will hear grown-ups say, ‘Can the Ethiopian change

his skin or the Leopard his spots?’ I don’t think even grown-ups would

keep on saying such a silly thing if the Leopard and the Ethiopian

hadn’t done it once--do you? But they will never do it again, Best

Beloved. They are quite contented as they are.





   I AM the Most Wise Baviaan, saying in most wise tones,

   ‘Let us melt into the landscape--just us two by our lones.’

   People have come--in a carriage--calling. But Mummy is there....

   Yes, I can go if you take me--Nurse says she don’t care.

   Let’s go up to the pig-sties and sit on the farmyard rails!

   Let’s say things to the bunnies, and watch ‘em skitter their tails!

   Let’s--oh, anything, daddy, so long as it’s you and me,

   And going truly exploring, and not being in till tea!

   Here’s your boots (I’ve brought ‘em), and here’s your cap and stick,

   And here’s your pipe and tobacco. Oh, come along out of it--quick.









THE ELEPHANT’S CHILD



IN the High and Far-Off Times the Elephant, O Best Beloved, had no

trunk. He had only a blackish, bulgy nose, as big as a boot, that he

could wriggle about from side to side; but he couldn’t pick up things

with it. But there was one Elephant--a new Elephant--an Elephant’s

Child--who was full of ‘satiable curtiosity, and that means he asked

ever so many questions. And he lived in Africa, and he filled all Africa

with his ‘satiable curtiosities. He asked his tall aunt, the Ostrich,

why her tail-feathers grew just so, and his tall aunt the Ostrich

spanked him with her hard, hard claw. He asked his tall uncle, the

Giraffe, what made his skin spotty, and his tall uncle, the Giraffe,

spanked him with his hard, hard hoof. And still he was full of ‘satiable

curtiosity! He asked his broad aunt, the Hippopotamus, why her eyes were

red, and his broad aunt, the Hippopotamus, spanked him with her broad,

broad hoof; and he asked his hairy uncle, the Baboon, why melons tasted

just so, and his hairy uncle, the Baboon, spanked him with his hairy,

hairy paw. And still he was full of ‘satiable curtiosity! He asked

questions about everything that he saw, or heard, or felt, or smelt, or

touched, and all his uncles and his aunts spanked him. And still he was

full of ‘satiable curtiosity!



One fine morning in the middle of the Precession of the Equinoxes this

‘satiable Elephant’s Child asked a new fine question that he had never

asked before. He asked, ‘What does the Crocodile have for dinner?’ Then

everybody said, ‘Hush!’ in a loud and dretful tone, and they spanked him

immediately and directly, without stopping, for a long time.



By and by, when that was finished, he came upon Kolokolo Bird sitting

in the middle of a wait-a-bit thorn-bush, and he said, ‘My father has

spanked me, and my mother has spanked me; all my aunts and uncles have

spanked me for my ‘satiable curtiosity; and still I want to know what

the Crocodile has for dinner!’



Then Kolokolo Bird said, with a mournful cry, ‘Go to the banks of the

great grey-green, greasy Limpopo River, all set about with fever-trees,

and find out.’



That very next morning, when there was nothing left of the Equinoxes,

because the Precession had preceded according to precedent, this

‘satiable Elephant’s Child took a hundred pounds of bananas (the little

short red kind), and a hundred pounds of sugar-cane (the long purple

kind), and seventeen melons (the greeny-crackly kind), and said to all

his dear families, ‘Goodbye. I am going to the great grey-green, greasy

Limpopo River, all set about with fever-trees, to find out what the

Crocodile has for dinner.’ And they all spanked him once more for luck,

though he asked them most politely to stop.



Then he went away, a little warm, but not at all astonished, eating

melons, and throwing the rind about, because he could not pick it up.



He went from Graham’s Town to Kimberley, and from Kimberley to Khama’s

Country, and from Khama’s Country he went east by north, eating melons

all the time, till at last he came to the banks of the great grey-green,

greasy Limpopo River, all set about with fever-trees, precisely as

Kolokolo Bird had said.



Now you must know and understand, O Best Beloved, that till that very

week, and day, and hour, and minute, this ‘satiable Elephant’s Child had

never seen a Crocodile, and did not know what one was like. It was all

his ‘satiable curtiosity.



The first thing that he found was a Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake curled

round a rock.



‘’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child most politely, ‘but have you seen

such a thing as a Crocodile in these promiscuous parts?’



‘Have I seen a Crocodile?’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake, in a

voice of dretful scorn. ‘What will you ask me next?’



‘’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child, ‘but could you kindly tell me

what he has for dinner?’



Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake uncoiled himself very quickly

from the rock, and spanked the Elephant’s Child with his scalesome,

flailsome tail.


