Mrs. Hauksbee heard that, and--she owned as much--felt that she had the

worst of it. Bremmil accepted 7 and 9 gratefully. They danced 7, and

sat out 9 in one of the little tents. What Bremmil said and what Mrs.

Bremmil said is no concern of any one’s.



When the band struck up “The Roast Beef of Old England,” the two went

out into the verandah, and Bremmil began looking for his wife’s dandy

(this was before ‘rickshaw days) while she went into the cloak-room.

Mrs. Hauksbee came up and said: “You take me in to supper, I think, Mr.

Bremmil.” Bremmil turned red and looked foolish. “Ah--h’m! I’m going

home with my wife, Mrs. Hauksbee. I think there has been a little

mistake.” Being a man, he spoke as though Mrs. Hauksbee were entirely

responsible.



Mrs. Bremmil came out of the cloak-room in a swansdown cloak with a

white “cloud” round her head. She looked radiant; and she had a right

to.



The couple went off in the darkness together, Bremmil riding very close

to the dandy.



Then says Mrs. Hauksbee to me--she looked a trifle faded and jaded in

the lamplight: “Take my word for it, the silliest woman can manage a

clever man; but it needs a very clever woman to manage a fool.”



Then we went in to supper.









THROWN AWAY.





     “And some are sulky, while some will plunge

       [So ho!  Steady!  Stand still, you!]

     Some you must gentle, and some you must lunge.

       [There!  There!  Who wants to kill you?]

     Some--there are losses in every trade--

     Will break their hearts ere bitted and made,

     Will fight like fiends as the rope cuts hard,

     And die dumb-mad in the breaking-yard.”



                       Toolungala Stockyard Chorus.





To rear a boy under what parents call the “sheltered life system” is, if

the boy must go into the world and fend for himself, not wise. Unless he

be one in a thousand he has certainly to pass through many unnecessary

troubles; and may, possibly, come to extreme grief simply from ignorance

of the proper proportions of things.



Let a puppy eat the soap in the bath-room or chew a newly-blacked boot.

He chews and chuckles until, by and by, he finds out that blacking and

Old Brown Windsor make him very sick; so he argues that soap and boots

are not wholesome. Any old dog about the house will soon show him the

unwisdom of biting big dogs’ ears. Being young, he remembers and goes

abroad, at six months, a well-mannered little beast with a chastened

appetite. If he had been kept away from boots, and soap, and big dogs

till he came to the trinity full-grown and with developed teeth, just

consider how fearfully sick and thrashed he would be! Apply that motion

to the “sheltered life,” and see how it works. It does not sound pretty,

but it is the better of two evils.



There was a Boy once who had been brought up under the “sheltered life”

 theory; and the theory killed him dead. He stayed with his people all

his days, from the hour he was born till the hour he went into Sandhurst

nearly at the top of the list. He was beautifully taught in all that

wins marks by a private tutor, and carried the extra weight of “never

having given his parents an hour’s anxiety in his life.” What he learnt

at Sandhurst beyond the regular routine is of no great consequence.

He looked about him, and he found soap and blacking, so to speak, very

good. He ate a little, and came out of Sandhurst not so high as he went

in. Then there was an interval and a scene with his people, who expected

much from him. Next a year of living “unspotted from the world” in a

third-rate depot battalion where all the juniors were children, and all

the seniors old women; and lastly he came out to India, where he was cut

off from the support of his parents, and had no one to fall back on in

time of trouble except himself.

Now India is a place beyond all others where one must not take things

too seriously--the midday sun always excepted. Too much work and too

much energy kill a man just as effectively as too much assorted vice or

too much drink. Flirtation does not matter because every one is being

transferred and either you or she leave the Station, and never return.

Good work does not matter, because a man is judged by his worst output

and another man takes all the credit of his best as a rule. Bad work

does not matter, because other men do worse, and incompetents hang on

longer in India than anywhere else. Amusements do not matter, because

you must repeat them as soon as you have accomplished them once, and

most amusements only mean trying to win another person’s money. Sickness

does not matter, because it’s all in the day’s work, and if you die

another man takes over your place and your office in the eight hours

between death and burial. Nothing matters except Home furlough and

acting allowances, and these only because they are scarce. This is a

slack, kutcha country where all men work with imperfect instruments; and

the wisest thing is to take no one and nothing in earnest, but to escape

as soon as ever you can to some place where amusement is amusement and a

reputation worth the having.



But this Boy--the tale is as old as the Hills--came out, and took all

things seriously. He was pretty and was petted. He took the pettings

seriously, and fretted over women not worth saddling a pony to call

upon. He found his new free life in India very good. It DOES look

attractive in the beginning, from a Subaltern’s point of view--all

ponies, partners, dancing, and so on. He tasted it as the puppy tastes

the soap. Only he came late to the eating, with a growing set of

teeth. He had no sense of balance--just like the puppy--and could not

understand why he was not treated with the consideration he received

under his father’s roof. This hurt his feelings.



He quarrelled with other boys, and, being sensitive to the marrow,

remembered these quarrels, and they excited him. He found whist, and

gymkhanas, and things of that kind (meant to amuse one after office)

good; but he took them seriously too, just as he took the “head” that

followed after drink. He lost his money over whist and gymkhanas because

they were new to him.



He took his losses seriously, and wasted as much energy and interest

over a two-goldmohur race for maiden ekka-ponies with their manes

hogged, as if it had been the Derby. One-half of this came from

inexperience--much as the puppy squabbles with the corner of the

hearth-rug--and the other half from the dizziness bred by stumbling out

of his quiet life into the glare and excitement of a livelier one. No

one told him about the soap and the blacking because an average man

takes it for granted that an average man is ordinarily careful in regard

to them. It was pitiful to watch The Boy knocking himself to pieces, as

an over-handled colt falls down and cuts himself when he gets away from

the groom.



This unbridled license in amusements not worth the trouble of breaking

line for, much less rioting over, endured for six months--all through

one cold weather--and then we thought that the heat and the knowledge

of having lost his money and health and lamed his horses would sober

The Boy down, and he would stand steady. In ninety-nine cases out of a

hundred this would have happened. You can see the principle working in

any Indian Station. But this particular case fell through because The

Boy was sensitive and took things seriously--as I may have said some

seven times before. Of course, we couldn’t tell how his excesses struck

him personally. They were nothing very heart-breaking or above the

average. He might be crippled for life financially, and want a little

nursing. Still the memory of his performances would wither away in

one hot weather, and the shroff would help him to tide over the money

troubles. But he must have taken another view altogether and have

believed himself ruined beyond redemption. His Colonel talked to him

severely when the cold weather ended. That made him more wretched than

ever; and it was only an ordinary “Colonel’s wigging!”



What follows is a curious instance of the fashion in which we are all

linked together and made responsible for one another. THE thing that

kicked the beam in The Boy’s mind was a remark that a woman made when he

was talking to her. There is no use in repeating it, for it was only a

cruel little sentence, rapped out before thinking, that made him flush

to the roots of his hair. He kept himself to himself for three days, and

then put in for two days’ leave to go shooting near a Canal Engineer’s

Rest House about thirty miles out. He got his leave, and that night

at Mess was noisier and more offensive than ever. He said that he was

“going to shoot big game”, and left at half-past ten o’clock in an

ekka. Partridge--which was the only thing a man could get near the Rest

House--is not big game; so every one laughed.



Next morning one of the Majors came in from short leave, and heard

that The Boy had gone out to shoot “big game.” The Major had taken an

interest in The Boy, and had, more than once, tried to check him in

the cold weather. The Major put up his eyebrows when he heard of the

expedition and went to The Boy’s room, where he rummaged.



Presently he came out and found me leaving cards on the Mess. There was

no one else in the ante-room.



He said: “The Boy has gone out shooting. DOES a man shoot tetur with a

revolver and a writing-case?”



I said: “Nonsense, Major!” for I saw what was in his mind.



He said: “Nonsense or nonsense, I’m going to the Canal now--at once. I

don’t feel easy.”



Then he thought for a minute, and said: “Can you lie?”


