THIS, O my Best Beloved, is a story--a new and a wonderful story--a

story quite different from the other stories--a story about The Most

Wise Sovereign Suleiman-bin-Daoud--Solomon the Son of David.



There are three hundred and fifty-five stories about Suleiman-bin-Daoud;

but this is not one of them. It is not the story of the Lapwing who

found the Water; or the Hoopoe who shaded Suleimanbin-Daoud from the

heat. It is not the story of the Glass Pavement, or the Ruby with

the Crooked Hole, or the Gold Bars of Balkis. It is the story of the

Butterfly that Stamped.



Now attend all over again and listen!



Suleiman-bin-Daoud was wise. He understood what the beasts said, what

the birds said, what the fishes said, and what the insects said. He

understood what the rocks said deep under the earth when they bowed in

towards each other and groaned; and he understood what the trees

said when they rustled in the middle of the morning. He understood

everything, from the bishop on the bench to the hyssop on the wall, and

Balkis, his Head Queen, the Most Beautiful Queen Balkis, was nearly as

wise as he was.



Suleiman-bin-Daoud was strong. Upon the third finger of the right hand

he wore a ring. When he turned it once, Afrits and Djinns came Out of

the earth to do whatever he told them. When he turned it twice, Fairies

came down from the sky to do whatever he told them; and when he turned

it three times, the very great angel Azrael of the Sword came dressed

as a water-carrier, and told him the news of the three worlds,

Above--Below--and Here.



And yet Suleiman-bin-Daoud was not proud. He very seldom showed off, and

when he did he was sorry for it. Once he tried to feed all the animals

in all the world in one day, but when the food was ready an Animal came

out of the deep sea and ate it up in three mouthfuls. Suleiman-bin-Daoud

was very surprised and said, ‘O Animal, who are you?’ And the Animal

said, ‘O King, live for ever! I am the smallest of thirty thousand

brothers, and our home is at the bottom of the sea. We heard that you

were going to feed all the animals in all the world, and my brothers

sent me to ask when dinner would be ready.’ Suleiman-bin-Daoud was more

surprised than ever and said, ‘O Animal, you have eaten all the dinner

that I made ready for all the animals in the world.’ And the Animal

said, ‘O King, live for ever, but do you really call that a dinner?

Where I come from we each eat twice as much as that between meals.’ Then

Suleiman-bin-Daoud fell flat on his face and said, ‘O Animal! I gave

that dinner to show what a great and rich king I was, and not because I

really wanted to be kind to the animals. Now I am ashamed, and it serves

me right. Suleiman-bin-Daoud was a really truly wise man, Best Beloved.

After that he never forgot that it was silly to show off; and now the

real story part of my story begins.



He married ever so many wifes. He married nine hundred and ninety-nine

wives, besides the Most Beautiful Balkis; and they all lived in a great

golden palace in the middle of a lovely garden with fountains. He

didn’t really want nine-hundred and ninety-nine wives, but in those

days everybody married ever so many wives, and of course the King had to

marry ever so many more just to show that he was the King.



Some of the wives were nice, but some were simply horrid, and the horrid

ones quarrelled with the nice ones and made them horrid too, and then

they would all quarrel with Suleiman-bin-Daoud, and that was horrid

for him. But Balkis the Most Beautiful never quarrelled with

Suleiman-bin-Daoud. She loved him too much. She sat in her rooms in the

Golden Palace, or walked in the Palace garden, and was truly sorry for

him.



Of course if he had chosen to turn his ring on his finger and call

up the Djinns and the Afrits they would have magicked all those nine

hundred and ninety-nine quarrelsome wives into white mules of the desert

or greyhounds or pomegranate seeds; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud thought that

that would be showing off. So, when they quarrelled too much, he only

walked by himself in one part of the beautiful Palace gardens and wished

he had never been born.



One day, when they had quarrelled for three weeks--all nine hundred and

ninety-nine wives together--Suleiman-bin-Daoud went out for peace

and quiet as usual; and among the orange trees he met Balkis the Most

Beautiful, very sorrowful because Suleiman-bin-Daoud was so worried.

And she said to him, ‘O my Lord and Light of my Eyes, turn the ring upon

your finger and show these Queens of Egypt and Mesopotamia and

Persia and China that you are the great and terrible King.’ But

Suleiman-bin-Daoud shook his head and said, ‘O my Lady and Delight of my

Life, remember the Animal that came out of the sea and made me ashamed

before all the animals in all the world because I showed off. Now, if

I showed off before these Queens of Persia and Egypt and Abyssinia and

China, merely because they worry me, I might be made even more ashamed

than I have been.’



And Balkis the Most Beautiful said, ‘O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul,

what will you do?’



And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said, ‘O my Lady and Content of my Heart, I

shall continue to endure my fate at the hands of these nine hundred and

ninety-nine Queens who vex me with their continual quarrelling.’



So he went on between the lilies and the loquats and the roses and the

cannas and the heavy-scented ginger-plants that grew in the garden, till

he came to the great camphor-tree that was called the Camphor Tree of

Suleiman-bin-Daoud. But Balkis hid among the tall irises and the spotted

bamboos and the red lillies behind the camphor-tree, so as to be near

her own true love, Suleiman-bin-Daoud.



Presently two Butterflies flew under the tree, quarrelling.



Suleiman-bin-Daoud heard one say to the other, ‘I wonder at your

presumption in talking like this to me. Don’t you know that if I stamped

with my foot all Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Palace and this garden here would

immediately vanish in a clap of thunder.’



Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud forgot his nine hundred and ninety-nine

bothersome wives, and laughed, till the camphor-tree shook, at the

Butterfly’s boast. And he held out his finger and said, ‘Little man,

come here.’



The Butterfly was dreadfully frightened, but he managed to fly up to

the hand of Suleiman-bin-Daoud, and clung there, fanning himself.

Suleiman-bin-Daoud bent his head and whispered very softly, ‘Little man,

you know that all your stamping wouldn’t bend one blade of grass. What

made you tell that awful fib to your wife?--for doubtless she is your

wife.’



The Butterfly looked at Suleiman-bin-Daoud and saw the most wise King’s

eye twinkle like stars on a frosty night, and he picked up his courage

with both wings, and he put his head on one side and said, ‘O King, live

for ever. She is my wife; and you know what wives are like.



Suleiman-bin-Daoud smiled in his beard and said, ‘Yes, I know, little

brother.



‘One must keep them in order somehow, said the Butterfly, and she has

been quarrelling with me all the morning. I said that to quiet her.’



And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said, ‘May it quiet her. Go back to your wife,

little brother, and let me hear what you say.’



Back flew the Butterfly to his wife, who was all of a twitter behind

a leaf, and she said, ‘He heard you! Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself heard

you!’



‘Heard me!’ said the Butterfly. ‘Of course he did. I meant him to hear

me.’



‘And what did he say? Oh, what did he say?’



‘Well,’ said the Butterfly, fanning himself most importantly, ‘between

you and me, my dear--of course I don’t blame him, because his Palace

must have cost a great deal and the oranges are just ripening,--he asked

me not to stamp, and I promised I wouldn’t.’



‘Gracious!’ said his wife, and sat quite quiet; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud

laughed till the tears ran down his face at the impudence of the bad

little Butterfly.



Balkis the Most Beautiful stood up behind the tree among the red lilies

and smiled to herself, for she had heard all this talk. She thought,

‘If I am wise I can yet save my Lord from the persecutions of these

quarrelsome Queens,’ and she held out her finger and whispered softly to

the Butterfly’s Wife, ‘Little woman, come here.’ Up flew the Butterfly’s

Wife, very frightened, and clung to Balkis’s white hand.



Balkis bent her beautiful head down and whispered, ‘Little woman, do you

believe what your husband has just said?’



The Butterfly’s Wife looked at Balkis, and saw the most beautiful

Queen’s eyes shining like deep pools with starlight on them, and she

picked up her courage with both wings and said, ‘O Queen, be lovely for

ever. You know what men-folk are like.’



And the Queen Balkis, the Wise Balkis of Sheba, put her hand to her lips

to hide a smile and said, ‘Little sister, I know.’



‘They get angry,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife, fanning herself quickly,

‘over nothing at all, but we must humour them, O Queen. They never mean

half they say. If it pleases my husband to believe that I believe he

can make Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Palace disappear by stamping his foot, I’m

sure I don’t care. He’ll forget all about it to-morrow.’



‘Little sister,’ said Balkis, ‘you are quite right; but next time he

begins to boast, take him at his word. Ask him to stamp, and see what

will happen. We know what men-folk are like, don’t we? He’ll be very

much ashamed.’



Away flew the Butterfly’s Wife to her husband, and in five minutes they

were quarrelling worse than ever.



‘Remember!’ said the Butterfly. ‘Remember what I can do if I stamp my

foot.’



‘I don’t believe you one little bit,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife. ‘I

should very much like to see it done. Suppose you stamp now.’



‘I promised Suleiman-bin-Daoud that I wouldn’t,’ said the Butterfly,

‘and I don’t want to break my promise.’



‘It wouldn’t matter if you did,’ said his wife. ‘You couldn’t bend

a blade of grass with your stamping. I dare you to do it,’ she said.

Stamp! Stamp! Stamp!’



Suleiman-bin-Daoud, sitting under the camphor-tree, heard every word

of this, and he laughed as he had never laughed in his life before. He

forgot all about his Queens; he forgot all about the Animal that came

out of the sea; he forgot about showing off. He just laughed with joy,

and Balkis, on the other side of the tree, smiled because her own true

love was so joyful.



Presently the Butterfly, very hot and puffy, came whirling back under

the shadow of the camphor-tree and said to Suleiman, ‘She wants me to

stamp! She wants to see what will happen, O Suleiman-bin-Daoud! You know

I can’t do it, and now she’ll never believe a word I say. She’ll laugh

at me to the end of my days!’



‘No, little brother,’ said Suleiman-bin-Daoud, ‘she will never laugh at

you again,’ and he turned the ring on his finger--just for the little

Butterfly’s sake, not for the sake of showing off,--and, lo and behold,

four huge Djinns came out of the earth!



‘Slaves,’ said Suleiman-bin-Daoud, ‘when this gentleman on my finger’

(that was where the impudent Butterfly was sitting) ‘stamps his left

front forefoot you will make my Palace and these gardens disappear in

a clap of thunder. When he stamps again you will bring them back

carefully.’
