

"I don't know how we fought. The men were trampling all over my back, and

I lay low. Then our rowers on the left side--tied to their oars, you

know--began to yell and back water. I could hear the water sizzle, and we

spun round like a cockchafer and I knew, lying where I was, that there was

a galley coming up bow-on, to ram us on the left side. I could just lift

up my head and see her sail over the bulwarks. We wanted to meet her bow

to bow, but it was too late. We could only turn a little bit because the

galley on our right had hooked herself on to us and stopped our moving.

Then, by gum! there was a crash! Our left oars began to break as the other

galley, the moving one y'know, stuck her nose into them. Then the

lower-deck oars shot up through the deck planking, butt first, and one of

them jumped clean up into the air and came down again close to my head."



"How was that managed?"



"The moving galley's bow was plunking them back through their own

oar-holes, and I could hear the devil of a shindy in the decks below. Then

her nose caught us nearly in the middle, and we tilted sideways, and the

fellows in the right-hand galley unhitched their hooks and ropes, and

threw things on to our upper deck--arrows, and hot pitch or something that

stung, and we went up and up and up on the left side, and the right side

dipped, and I twisted my head round and saw the water stand still as it

topped the right bulwarks, and then it curled over and crashed down on the

whole lot of us on the right side, and I felt it hit my back, and I woke."



"One minute, Charlie. When the sea topped the bulwarks, what did it look

like?" I had my reasons for asking. A man of my acquaintance had once gone

down with a leaking ship in a still sea, and had seen the water-level

pause for an instant ere it fell on the deck.



"It looked just like a banjo-string drawn tight, and it seemed to stay

there for years," said Charlie.



Exactly! The other man had said: "It looked like a silver wire laid down

along the bulwarks, and I thought it was never going to break." He had

paid everything except the bare life for this little valueless piece of

knowledge, and I had traveled ten thousand weary miles to meet him and

take his knowledge at second hand. But Charlie, the bank-clerk on

twenty-five shillings a week, he who had never been out of sight of a

London omnibus, knew it all. It was no consolation to me that once in his

lives he had been forced to die for his gains. I also must have died

scores of times, but behind me, because I could have used my knowledge,

the doors were shut.



"And then?" I said, trying to put away the devil of envy.



"The funny thing was, though, in all the mess I didn't feel a bit

astonished or frightened. It seemed as if I'd been in a good many fights,

because I told my next man so when the row began. But that cad of an

overseer on my deck wouldn't unloose our chains and give us a chance. He

always said that we'd all be set free after a battle, but we never were;

we never were." Charlie shook his head mournfully.



"What a scoundrel!"



"I should say he was. He never gave us enough to eat, and sometimes we

were so thirsty that we used to drink salt-water. I can taste that

salt-water still."



"Now tell me something about the harbor where the fight was fought."



"I didn't dream about that. I know it was a harbor, though; because we

were tied up to a ring on a white wall and all the face of the stone under

water was covered with wood to prevent our ram getting chipped when the

tide made us rock."



"That's curious. Our hero commanded the galley, didn't he?"



"Didn't he just! He stood by the bows and shouted like a good 'un. He was

the man who killed the overseer."



"But you were all drowned together, Charlie, weren't you?"



"I can't make that fit quite," he said, with a puzzled look. "The galley

must have gone down with all hands, and yet I fancy that the hero went on

living afterward. Perhaps he climbed into the attacking ship. I wouldn't

see that, of course. I was dead, you know." He shivered slightly and

protested that he could remember no more.



I did not press him further, but to satisfy myself that he lay in

ignorance of the workings of his own mind, deliberately introduced him to

Mortimer Collins's "Transmigration," and gave him a sketch of the plot

before he opened the pages.



"What rot it all is!" he said, frankly, at the end of an hour. "I don't

understand his nonsense about the Red Planet Mars and the King, and the

rest of it. Chuck me the Longfellow again."



I handed him the book and wrote out as much as I could remember of his

description of the sea-fight, appealing to him from time to time for

confirmation of fact or detail. He would answer without raising his eyes

from the book, as assuredly as though all his knowledge lay before him on

the printed page. I spoke under the normal key of my voice that the

current might not be broken, and I know that he was not aware of what he

was saying, for his thoughts were out on the sea with Longfellow.



"Charlie," I asked, "when the rowers on the gallies mutinied how did they

kill their overseers?"



"Tore up the benches and brained 'em. That happened when a heavy sea was

running. An overseer on the lower deck slipped from the centre plank and

fell among the rowers. They choked him to death against the side of the

ship with their chained hands quite quietly, and it was too dark for the

other overseer to see what had happened. When he asked, he was pulled down

too and choked, and the lower deck fought their way up deck by deck, with

the pieces of the broken benches banging behind 'em. How they howled!"



"And what happened after that?"



"I don't know. The hero went away--red hair and red beard and all. That

was after he had captured our galley, I think."



The sound of my voice irritated him, and he motioned slightly with his

left hand as a man does when interruption jars.



"You never told me he was red-headed before, or that he captured your

galley," I said, after a discreet interval.



Charlie did not raise his eyes.



"He was as red as a red bear," said he, abstractedly. "He came from the

north; they said so in the galley when he looked for rowers--not slaves,

but free men. Afterward--years and years afterward--news came from another

ship, or else he came back"--



His lips moved in silence. He was rapturously retasting some poem before

him.



"Where had he been, then?" I was almost whispering that the sentence might

come gentle to whichever section of Charlie's brain was working on my

behalf.



"To the Beaches--the Long and Wonderful Beaches!" was the reply, after a

minute of silence.



"To Furdurstrandi?" I asked, tingling from head to foot.



"Yes, to Furdurstrandi," he pronounced the word in a new fashion. "And I

too saw"----The voice failed.



"Do you know what you have said?" I shouted, incautiously.



He lifted his eyes, fully roused now, "No!" he snapped. "I wish you'd let

a chap go on reading. Hark to this:



  "'But Othere, the old sea captain,

   He neither paused nor stirred

     Till the king listened, and then

     Once more took up his pen

   And wrote down every word,



  "'And to the King of the Saxons

   In witness of the truth,

     Raising his noble head,

     He stretched his brown hand and said,

   "Behold this walrus tooth."'



By Jove, what chaps those must have been, to go sailing all over the shop

never knowing where they'd fetch the land! Hah!"



"Charlie," I pleaded, "if you'll only be sensible for a minute or two I'll

make our hero in our tale every inch as good as Othere."



"Umph! Longfellow wrote that poem. I don't care about writing things any

more. I want to read." He was thoroughly out of tune now, and raging over

my own ill-luck, I left him.



Conceive yourself at the door of the world's treasure-house guarded by a

child--an idle irresponsible child playing knuckle-bones--on whose favor

depends the gift of the key, and you will imagine one half my torment.

Till that evening Charlie had spoken nothing that might not lie within the

experiences of a Greek galley-slave. But now, or there was no virtue in

books, he had talked of some desperate adventure of the Vikings, of

Thorfin Karlsefne's sailing to Wineland, which is America, in the ninth or

tenth century. The battle in the harbor he had seen; and his own death he

had described. But this was a much more startling plunge into the past.

Was it possible that he had skipped half a dozen lives and was then dimly

remembering some episode of a thousand years later? It was a maddening

jumble, and the worst of it was that Charlie Mears in his normal condition

was the last person in the world to clear it up. I could only wait and

watch, but I went to bed that night full of the wildest imaginings. There

was nothing that was not possible if Charlie's detestable memory only held

good.



I might rewrite the Saga of Thorfin Karlsefne as it had never been written

before, might tell the story of the first discovery of America, myself the

discoverer. But I was entirely at Charlie's mercy, and so long as there

was a three-and-six-penny Bohn volume within his reach Charlie would not

tell. I dared not curse him openly; I hardly dared jog his memory, for I

was dealing with the experiences of a thousand years ago, told through the

mouth of a boy of to-day; and a boy of to-day is affected by every change

of tone and gust of opinion, so that he lies even when he desires to speak

the truth.



I saw no more of him for nearly a week. When next I met him it was in

Gracechurch Street with a billhook chained to his waist. Business took him

over London Bridge and I accompanied him. He was very full of the

importance of that book and magnified it. As we passed over the Thames we

paused to look at a steamer unloading great slabs of white and brown

marble. A barge drifted under the steamer's stern and a lonely cow in that

barge bellowed. Charlie's face changed from the face of the bank-clerk to

that of an unknown and--though he would not have believed this--a much

shrewder man. He flung out his arm across the parapet of the bridge and

laughing very loudly, said:



"When they heard _our_ bulls bellow the Skroelings ran away!"



I waited only for an instant, but the barge and the cow had disappeared

under the bows of the steamer before I answered.



"Charlie, what do you suppose are Skroelings?"



"Never heard of 'em before. They sound like a new kind of seagull. What a

chap you are for asking questions!" he replied. "I have to go to the

cashier of the Omnibus Company yonder. Will you wait for me and we can

lunch somewhere together? I've a notion for a poem."



"No, thanks. I'm off. You're sure you know nothing about Skroelings?"


