BEFORE the High and Far-Off Times, O my Best Beloved, came the Time of

the Very Beginnings; and that was in the days when the Eldest Magician

was getting Things ready. First he got the Earth ready; then he got the

Sea ready; and then he told all the Animals that they could come out and

play. And the Animals said, ‘O Eldest Magician, what shall we play

at?’ and he said, ‘I will show you. He took the

Elephant--All-the-Elephant-there-was--and said, ‘Play at being

an Elephant,’ and All-the-Elephant-there-was played. He took the

Beaver--All-the-Beaver-there-was and said, ‘Play at being a Beaver,’

and All-the Beaver-there-was played. He took the Cow--All-the

Cow-there-was--and said, ‘Play at being a Cow,’ and

All-the-Cow-there-was played. He took the Turtle--All-the-Turtle

there-was and said, ‘Play at being a Turtle,’ and

All-the-Turtle-there-was played. One by one he took all the beasts and

birds and fishes and told them what to play at.



But towards evening, when people and things grow restless and tired,

there came up the Man (With his own little girl-daughter?)--Yes, with

his own best beloved little girl-daughter sitting upon his shoulder, and

he said, ‘What is this play, Eldest Magician?’ And the Eldest Magician

said, ‘Ho, Son of Adam, this is the play of the Very Beginning; but you

are too wise for this play.’ And the Man saluted and said, ‘Yes, I am

too wise for this play; but see that you make all the Animals obedient

to me.’

Now, while the two were talking together, Pau Amma the Crab, who was

next in the game, scuttled off sideways and stepped into the sea, saying

to himself, ‘I will play my play alone in the deep waters, and I will

never be obedient to this son of Adam.’ Nobody saw him go away except

the little girl-daughter where she leaned on the Man’s shoulder. And the

play went on till there were no more Animals left without orders; and

the Eldest Magician wiped the fine dust off his hands and walked about

the world to see how the Animals were playing.



He went North, Best Beloved, and he found All-the-Elephant-there-was

digging with his tusks and stamping with his feet in the nice new clean

earth that had been made ready for him.



‘Kun?’ said All-the-Elephant-there-was, meaning, ‘Is this right?’



‘Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician, meaning, ‘That is quite

right’; and he breathed upon the great rocks and lumps of earth that

All-the-Elephant-there-was had thrown up, and they became the great

Himalayan Mountains, and you can look them out on the map.



He went East, and he found All-the-Cow there-was feeding in the field

that had been made ready for her, and she licked her tongue round a

whole forest at a time, and swallowed it and sat down to chew her cud.



‘Kun?’ said All-the-Cow-there-was.



‘Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician; and he breathed upon the bare

patch where she had eaten, and upon the place where she had sat down,

and one became the great Indian Desert, and the other became the Desert

of Sahara, and you can look them out on the map.



He went West, and he found All-the-Beaver-there-was making a beaver-dam

across the mouths of broad rivers that had been got ready for him.



‘Kun?’ said All-the-Beaver-there-was.



‘Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician; and he breathed upon the fallen

trees and the still water, and they became the Everglades in Florida,

and you may look them out on the map.



Then he went South and found All-the-Turtle-there-was scratching with

his flippers in the sand that had been got ready for him, and the sand

and the rocks whirled through the air and fell far off into the sea.



‘Kun?’ said All-the-Turtle-there-was.



‘Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician; and he breathed upon the sand and

the rocks, where they had fallen in the sea, and they became the most

beautiful islands of Borneo, Celebes, Sumatra, Java, and the rest of the

Malay Archipelago, and you can look them out on the map!



By and by the Eldest Magician met the Man on the banks of the Perak

river, and said, ‘Ho! Son of Adam, are all the Animals obedient to you?’



‘Yes,’ said the Man.



‘Is all the Earth obedient to you?’



‘Yes,’ said the Man.



‘Is all the Sea obedient to you?’



‘No,’ said the Man. ‘Once a day and once a night the Sea runs up the

Perak river and drives the sweet-water back into the forest, so that my

house is made wet; once a day and once a night it runs down the river

and draws all the water after it, so that there is nothing left but mud,

and my canoe is upset. Is that the play you told it to play?’



‘No,’ said the Eldest Magician. ‘That is a new and a bad play.’



‘Look!’ said the Man, and as he spoke the great Sea came up the mouth of

the Perak river, driving the river backwards till it overflowed all the

dark forests for miles and miles, and flooded the Man’s house.



‘This is wrong. Launch your canoe and we will find out who is playing

with the Sea,’ said the Eldest Magician. They stepped into the canoe;

the little girl-daughter came with them; and the Man took his kris--a

curving, wavy dagger with a blade like a flame,--and they pushed out on

the Perak river. Then the sea began to run back and back, and the canoe

was sucked out of the mouth of the Perak river, past Selangor, past

Malacca, past Singapore, out and out to the Island of Bingtang, as

though it had been pulled by a string.



Then the Eldest Magician stood up and shouted, ‘Ho! beasts, birds, and

fishes, that I took between my hands at the Very Beginning and taught

the play that you should play, which one of you is playing with the

Sea?’



Then all the beasts, birds, and fishes said together, ‘Eldest Magician,

we play the plays that you taught us to play--we and our children’s

children. But not one of us plays with the Sea.’



Then the Moon rose big and full over the water, and the Eldest Magician

said to the hunchbacked old man who sits in the Moon spinning a

fishing-line with which he hopes one day to catch the world, ‘Ho! Fisher

of the Moon, are you playing with the Sea?’



‘No,’ said the Fisherman, ‘I am spinning a line with which I shall some

day catch the world; but I do not play with the Sea.’ And he went on

spinning his line.



Now there is also a Rat up in the Moon who always bites the old

Fisherman’s line as fast as it is made, and the Eldest Magician said to

him, ‘Ho! Rat of the Moon, are you playing with the Sea?’



And the Rat said, ‘I am too busy biting through the line that this

old Fisherman is spinning. I do not play with the Sea.’ And he went on

biting the line.



Then the little girl-daughter put up her little soft brown arms with the

beautiful white shell bracelets and said, ‘O Eldest Magician! when my

father here talked to you at the Very Beginning, and I leaned upon his

shoulder while the beasts were being taught their plays, one beast went

away naughtily into the Sea before you had taught him his play.



And the Eldest Magician said, ‘How wise are little children who see and

are silent! What was the beast like?’



And the little girl-daughter said, ‘He was round and he was flat; and

his eyes grew upon stalks; and he walked sideways like this; and he was

covered with strong armour upon his back.’



And the Eldest Magician said, ‘How wise are little children who speak

truth! Now I know where Pau Amma went. Give me the paddle!’



So he took the paddle; but there was no need to paddle, for the water

flowed steadily past all the islands till they came to the place called

Pusat Tasek--the Heart of the Sea--where the great hollow is that leads

down to the heart of the world, and in that hollow grows the Wonderful

Tree, Pauh Janggi, that bears the magic twin nuts. Then the Eldest

Magician slid his arm up to the shoulder through the deep warm water,

and under the roots of the Wonderful Tree he touched the broad back of

Pau Amma the Crab. And Pau Amma settled down at the touch, and all the

Sea rose up as water rises in a basin when you put your hand into it.



‘Ah!’ said the Eldest Magician. ‘Now I know who has been playing with

the Sea;’ and he called out, ‘What are you doing, Pau Amma?’



And Pau Amma, deep down below, answered, ‘Once a day and once a night I

go out to look for my food. Once a day and once a night I return. Leave

me alone.’



Then the Eldest Magician said, ‘Listen, Pau Amma. When you go out from

your cave the waters of the Sea pour down into Pusat Tasek, and all the

beaches of all the islands are left bare, and the little fish die, and

Raja Moyang Kaban, the King of the Elephants, his legs are made muddy.

When you come back and sit in Pusat Tasek, the waters of the Sea rise,

and half the little islands are drowned, and the Man’s house is flooded,

and Raja Abdullah, the King of the Crocodiles, his mouth is filled with

the salt water.



Then Pau Amma, deep down below, laughed and said, ‘I did not know I

was so important. Henceforward I will go out seven times a day, and the

waters shall never be still.’



And the Eldest Magician said, ‘I cannot make you play the play you were

meant to play, Pau Amma, because you escaped me at the Very Beginning;

but if you are not afraid, come up and we will talk about it.’



‘I am not afraid,’ said Pau Amma, and he rose to the top of the sea in

the moonlight. There was nobody in the world so big as Pau Amma--for he

was the King Crab of all Crabs. Not a common Crab, but a King Crab. One

side of his great shell touched the beach at Sarawak; the other

touched the beach at Pahang; and he was taller than the smoke of three

volcanoes! As he rose up through the branches of the Wonderful Tree he

tore off one of the great twin fruits--the magic double kernelled nuts

that make people young,--and the little girl-daughter saw it bobbing

alongside the canoe, and pulled it in and began to pick out the soft

eyes of it with her little golden scissors.



‘Now,’ said the Magician, ‘make a Magic, Pau Amma, to show that you are

really important.’



Pau Amma rolled his eyes and waved his legs, but he could only stir up

the Sea, because, though he was a King Crab, he was nothing more than a

Crab, and the Eldest Magician laughed.


