His name was Charlie Mears; he was the only son of his mother who was a

widow, and he lived in the north of London, coming into the City every day

to work in a bank. He was twenty years old and suffered from aspirations.

I met him in a public billiard-saloon where the marker called him by his

given name, and he called the marker "Bullseyes." Charlie explained, a

little nervously, that he had only come to the place to look on, and since

looking on at games of skill is not a cheap amusement for the young, I

suggested that Charlie should go back to his mother.



That was our first step toward better acquaintance. He would call on me

sometimes in the evenings instead of running about London with his

fellow-clerks; and before long, speaking of himself as a young man must,

he told me of his aspirations, which were all literary. He desired to make

himself an undying name chiefly through verse, though he was not above

sending stories of love and death to the drop-a-penny-in-the-slot

journals. It was my fate to sit still while Charlie read me poems of many

hundred lines, and bulky fragments of plays that would surely shake the

world. My reward was his unreserved confidence, and the self-revelations

and troubles of a young man are almost as holy as those of a maiden.

Charlie had never fallen in love, but was anxious to do so on the first

opportunity; he believed in all things good and all things honorable, but,

at the same time, was curiously careful to let me see that he knew his way

about the world as befitted a bank clerk on twenty-five shillings a week.

He rhymed "dove" with "love" and "moon" with "June," and devoutly believed

that they had never so been rhymed before. The long lame gaps in his plays

he filled up with hasty words of apology and description and swept on,

seeing all that he intended to do so clearly that he esteemed it already

done, and turned to me for applause.



I fancy that his mother did not encourage his aspirations, and I know that

his writing-table at home was the edge of his washstand. This he told me

almost at the outset of our acquaintance; when he was ravaging my

bookshelves, and a little before I was implored to speak the truth as to

his chances of "writing something really great, you know." Maybe I

encouraged him too much, for, one night, he called on me, his eyes flaming

with excitement, and said breathlessly:



"Do you mind--can you let me stay here and write all this evening? I won't

interrupt you, I won't really. There's no place for me to write in at my

mother's."



"What's the trouble?" I said, knowing well what that trouble was.



"I've a notion in my head that would make the most splendid story that was

ever written. Do let me write it out here. It's _such_ a notion!"



There was no resisting the appeal. I set him a table; he hardly thanked

me, but plunged into the work at once. For half an hour the pen scratched

without stopping. Then Charlie sighed and tugged his hair. The scratching

grew slower, there were more erasures, and at last ceased. The finest

story in the world would not come forth.



"It looks such awful rot now," he said, mournfully. "And yet it seemed so

good when I was thinking about it. What's wrong?"



I could not dishearten him by saying the truth. So I answered: "Perhaps

you don't feel in the mood for writing."



"Yes I do--except when I look at this stuff. Ugh!"



"Read me what you've done," I said.



"He read, and it was wondrous bad, and he paused at all the specially

turgid sentences, expecting a little approval; for he was proud of those

sentences, as I knew he would be.



"It needs compression," I suggested, cautiously.



"I hate cutting my things down. I don't think you could alter a word here

without spoiling the sense. It reads better aloud than when I was writing

it."



"Charlie, you're suffering from an alarming disease afflicting a numerous

class. Put the thing by, and tackle it again in a week."



"I want to do it at once. What do you think of it?"



"How can I judge from a half-written tale? Tell me the story as it lies in

your head."



Charlie told, and in the telling there was everything that his ignorance

had so carefully prevented from escaping into the written word. I looked

at him, and wondering whether it were possible that he did not know the

originality, the power of the notion that had come in his way? It was

distinctly a Notion among notions. Men had been puffed up with pride by

notions not a tithe as excellent and practicable. But Charlie babbled on

serenely, interrupting the current of pure fancy with samples of horrible

sentences that he purposed to use. I heard him out to the end. It would be

folly to allow his idea to remain in his own inept hands, when I could do

so much with it. Not all that could be done indeed; but, oh so much!



"What do you think?" he said, at last. "I fancy I shall call it 'The Story

of a Ship.'"



"I think the idea's pretty good; but you won't be able to handle it for

ever so long. Now I"----



"Would it be of any use to you? Would you care to take it? I should be

proud," said Charlie, promptly.



There are few things sweeter in this world than the guileless, hot-headed,

intemperate, open admiration of a junior. Even a woman in her blindest

devotion does not fall into the gait of the man she adores, tilt her

bonnet to the angle at which he wears his hat, or interlard her speech

with his pet oaths. And Charlie did all these things. Still it was

necessary to salve my conscience before I possessed myself of Charlie's

thoughts.



"Let's make a bargain. I'll give you a fiver for the notion," I said.



Charlie became a bank-clerk at once.



"Oh, that's impossible. Between two pals, you know, if I may call you so,

and speaking as a man of the world, I couldn't. Take the notion if it's

any use to you. I've heaps more."



He had--none knew this better than I--but they were the notions of other

men.



"Look at it as a matter of business--between men of the world," I

returned. "Five pounds will buy you any number of poetry-books. Business

is business, and you may be sure I shouldn't give that price unless"----



"Oh, if you put it _that_ way," said Charlie, visibly moved by the thought

of the books. The bargain was clinched with an agreement that he should at

unstated intervals come to me with all the notions that he possessed,

should have a table of his own to write at, and unquestioned right to

inflict upon me all his poems and fragments of poems. Then I said, "Now

tell me how you came by this idea."



"It came by itself," Charlie's eyes opened a little.



"Yes, but you told me a great deal about the hero that you must have read

before somewhere."



"I haven't any time for reading, except when you let me sit here, and on

Sundays I'm on my bicycle or down the river all day. There's nothing wrong

about the hero, is there?"



"Tell me again and I shall understand clearly. You say that your hero went

pirating. How did he live?"



"He was on the lower deck of this ship-thing that I was telling you

about."



"What sort of ship?"



"It was the kind rowed with oars, and the sea spurts through the oar-holes

and the men row sitting up to their knees in water. Then there's a bench

running down between the two lines of oars and an overseer with a whip

walks up and down the bench to make the men work."



"How do you know that?"



"It's in the tale. There's a rope running overhead, looped to the upper

deck, for the overseer to catch hold of when the ship rolls. When the

overseer misses the rope once and falls among the rowers, remember the

hero laughs at him and gets licked for it. He's chained to his oar of

course--the hero."



"How is he chained?"



"With an iron band round his waist fixed to the bench he sits on, and a

sort of handcuff on his left wrist chaining him to the oar. He's on the

lower deck where the worst men are sent, and the only light comes from the

hatchways and through the oar-holes. Can't you imagine the sunlight just

squeezing through between the handle and the hole and wobbling about as

the ship moves?"



"I can, but I can't imagine your imagining it."



"How could it be any other way? Now you listen to me. The long oars on the

upper deck are managed by four men to each bench, the lower ones by three,

and the lowest of all by two. Remember, it's quite dark on the lowest deck

and all the men there go mad. When a man dies at his oar on that deck he

isn't thrown overboard, but cut up in his chains and stuffed through the

oar-hole in little pieces."



"Why?" I demanded, amazed, not so much at the information as the tone of

command in which it was flung out.



"To save trouble and to frighten the others. It needs two overseers to

drag a man's body up to the top deck; and if the men at the lower deck

oars were left alone, of course they'd stop rowing and try to pull up the

benches by all standing up together in their chains."



"You've a most provident imagination. Where have you been reading about

galleys and galley-slaves?"



"Nowhere that I remember. I row a little when I get the chance. But,

perhaps, if you say so, I may have read something."



He went away shortly afterward to deal with booksellers, and I wondered

how a bank clerk aged twenty could put into my hands with a profligate

abundance of detail, all given with absolute assurance, the story of

extravagant and bloodthirsty adventure, riot, piracy, and death in unnamed

seas. He had led his hero a desperate dance through revolt against the

overseers, to command of a ship of his own, and ultimate establishment of

a kingdom on an island "somewhere in the sea, you know"; and, delighted

with my paltry five pounds, had gone out to buy the notions of other men,

that these might teach him how to write. I had the consolation of knowing

that this notion was mine by right of purchase, and I thought that I could

make something of it.



When next he came to me he was drunk--royally drunk on many poets for the

first time revealed to him. His pupils were dilated, his words tumbled

over each other, and he wrapped himself in quotations. Most of all was he

drunk with Longfellow.


