"Isn't it splendid? Isn't it superb?" he cried, after hasty greetings.

"Listen to this--



  "'Wouldst thou,'--so the helmsman answered,

     'Know the secret of the sea?

   Only those who brave its dangers

     Comprehend its mystery.'"



By gum!



  "'Only those who brave its dangers

     Comprehend its mystery,'"



he repeated twenty times, walking up and down the room and forgetting me.

"But _I_ can understand it too," he said to himself. "I don't know how to

thank you for that fiver, And this; listen--



  "'I remember the black wharves and the ships

     And the sea-tides tossing free,

   And the Spanish sailors with bearded lips,

   And the beauty and mystery of the ships,

     And the magic of the sea.'"



I haven't braved any dangers, but I feel as if I knew all about it."



"You certainly seem to have a grip of the sea. Have you ever seen it?"



"When I was a little chap I went to Brighton once; we used to live in

Coventry, though, before we came to London. I never saw it,



  "'When descends on the Atlantic

   The gigantic

   Storm-wind of the Equinox.'"



He shook me by the shoulder to make me understand the passion that was

shaking himself.



"When that storm comes," he continued, "I think that all the oars in the

ship that I was talking about get broken, and the rowers have their chests

smashed in by the bucking oar-heads. By the way, have you done anything

with that notion of mine yet?"



"No. I was waiting to hear more of it from you. Tell me how in the world

you're so certain about the fittings of the ship. You know nothing of

ships."



"I don't know. It's as real as anything to me until I try to write it

down. I was thinking about it only last night in bed, after you had loaned

me 'Treasure Island'; and I made up a whole lot of new things to go into

the story."



"What sort of things?"



"About the food the men ate; rotten figs and black beans and wine in a

skin bag, passed from bench to bench."



"Was the ship built so long ago as _that_?"



"As what? I don't know whether it was long ago or not. It's only a notion,

but sometimes it seems just as real as if it was true. Do I bother you

with talking about it?"



"Not in the least. Did you make up anything else?"



"Yes, but it's nonsense." Charlie flushed a little.



"Never mind; let's hear about it."



"Well, I was thinking over the story, and after awhile I got out of bed

and wrote down on a piece of paper the sort of stuff the men might be

supposed to scratch on their oars with the edges of their handcuffs. It

seemed to make the thing more lifelike. It _is_ so real to me, y'know."



"Have you the paper on you?"



"Ye-es, but what's the use of showing it? It's only a lot of scratches.

All the same, we might have 'em reproduced in the book on the front page."



"I'll attend to those details. Show me what your men wrote."



He pulled out of his pocket a sheet of note-paper, with a single line of

scratches upon it, and I put this carefully away.



"What is it supposed to mean in English?" I said.



"Oh, I don't know. Perhaps it means 'I'm beastly tired.' It's great

nonsense," he repeated, "but all those men in the ship seem as real as

people to me. Do do something to the notion soon; I should like to see it

written and printed."



"But all you've told me would make a long book."



"Make it then. You've only to sit down and write it out."



"Give me a little time. Have you any more notions?"



"Not just now. I'm reading all the books I've bought. They're splendid."



When he had left I looked at the sheet of note-paper with the inscription

upon it. Then I took my head tenderly between both hands, to make certain

that it was not coming off or turning round. Then ... but there seemed to

be no interval between quitting my rooms and finding myself arguing with a

policeman outside a door marked _Private_ in a corridor of the British

Museum. All I demanded, as politely as possible, was "the Greek antiquity

man." The policeman knew nothing except the rules of the Museum, and it

became necessary to forage through all the houses and offices inside the

gates. An elderly gentleman called away from his lunch put an end to my

search by holding the note-paper between finger and thumb and sniffing at

it scornfully.



"What does this mean? H'mm," said he. "So far as I can ascertain it is an

attempt to write extremely corrupt Greek on the part"--here he glared at

me with intention--"of an extremely illiterate--ah--person." He read

slowly from the paper, "_Pollock, Erckmann, Tauchnitz, Henniker_"-four

names familiar to me.



"Can you tell me what the corruption is supposed to mean--the gist of the

thing?" I asked.



"I have been--many times--overcome with weariness in this particular

employment. That is the meaning." He returned me the paper, and I fled

without a word of thanks, explanation, or apology.



I might have been excused for forgetting much. To me of all men had been

given the chance to write the most marvelous tale in the world, nothing

less than the story of a Greek galley-slave, as told by himself. Small

wonder that his dreaming had seemed real to Charlie. The Fates that are so

careful to shut the doors of each successive life behind us had, in this

case, been neglectful, and Charlie was looking, though that he did not

know, where never man had been permitted to look with full knowledge since

Time began. Above all, he was absolutely ignorant of the knowledge sold to

me for five pounds; and he would retain that ignorance, for bank-clerks do

not understand metempsychosis, and a sound commercial education does not

include Greek. He would supply me--here I capered among the dumb gods of

Egypt and laughed in their battered faces--with material to make my tale

sure--so sure that the world would hail it as an impudent and vamped

fiction. And I--I alone would know that it was absolutely and literally

true. I--I alone held this jewel to my hand for the cutting and polishing.

Therefore I danced again among the gods till a policeman saw me and took

steps in my direction.



It remained now only to encourage Charlie to talk, and here there was no

difficulty. But I had forgotten those accursed books of poetry. He came to

me time after time, as useless as a surcharged phonograph--drunk on Byron,

Shelley, or Keats. Knowing now what the boy had been in his past lives,

and desperately anxious not to lose one word of his babble, I could not

hide from him my respect and interest. He misconstrued both into respect

for the present soul of Charlie Mears, to whom life was as new as it was

to Adam, and interest in his readings; and stretched my patience to

breaking point by reciting poetry--not his own now, but that of others. I

wished every English poet blotted out of the memory of mankind. I

blasphemed the mightiest names of song because they had drawn Charlie from

the path of direct narrative, and would, later, spur him to imitate them;

but I choked down my impatience until the first flood of enthusiasm should

have spent itself and the boy returned to his dreams.



"What's the use of my telling you what _I_ think, when these chaps wrote

things for the angels to read?" he growled, one evening. "Why don't you

write something like theirs?"



"I don't think you're treating me quite fairly," I said, speaking under

strong restraint.



"I've given you the story," he said, shortly, replunging into "Lara."



"But I want the details."



"The things I make up about that damned ship that you call a galley?

They're quite easy. You can just make 'em up yourself. Turn up the gas a

little, I want to go on reading."



I could have broken the gas globe over his head for his amazing stupidity.

I could indeed make up things for myself did I only know what Charlie did

not know that he knew. But since the doors were shut behind me I could

only wait his youthful pleasure and strive to keep him in good temper. One

minute's want of guard might spoil a priceless revelation; now and again

he would toss his books aside--he kept them in my rooms, for his mother

would have been shocked at the waste of good money had she seen them--and

launched into his sea dreams, Again I cursed all the poets of England. The

plastic mind of the bank-clerk had been overlaid, colored and distorted by

that which he had read, and the result as delivered was a confused tangle

of other voices most like the muttered song through a City telephone in

the busiest part of the day.



He talked of the galley--his own galley had he but known it--with

illustrations borrowed from the "Bride of Abydos." He pointed the

experiences of his hero with quotations from "The Corsair," and threw in

deep and desperate moral reflections from "Cain" and "Manfred," expecting

me to use them all. Only when the talk turned on Longfellow were the

jarring cross-currents dumb, and I knew that Charlie was speaking the

truth as he remembered it.



"What do you think of this?" I said one evening, as soon as I understood

the medium in which his memory worked best, and, before he could

expostulate, read him the whole of "The Saga of King Olaf!"



He listened open-mouthed, flushed, his hands drumming on the back of the

sofa where he lay, till I came to the Song of Einar Tamberskelver and the

verse:



  "Einar then, the arrow taking

     From the loosened string,

   Answered: 'That was Norway breaking

     'Neath thy hand, O King.'"



He gasped with pure delight of sound.



"That's better than Byron, a little," I ventured.



"Better? Why it's _true!_ How could he have known?"



I went back and repeated:



  "What was that?' said Olaf, standing

     On the quarter-deck,

   'Something heard I like the stranding

     Of a shattered wreck?'"



"How could he have known how the ships crash and the oars rip out and go

_z-zzp_ all along the line? Why only the other night.... But go back

please and read 'The Skerry of Shrieks' again."



"No, I'm tired. Let's talk. What happened the other night?"



"I had an awful nightmare about that galley of ours. I dreamed I was

drowned in a fight. You see we ran alongside another ship in harbor. The

water was dead still except where our oars whipped it up. You know where I

always sit in the galley?" He spoke haltingly at first, under a fine

English fear of being laughed at,



"No. That's news to me," I answered, meekly, my heart beginning to beat.



"On the fourth oar from the bow on the right side on the upper deck. There

were four of us at that oar, all chained. I remember watching the water

and trying to get my handcuffs off before the row began. Then we closed up

on the other ship, and all their fighting men jumped over our bulwarks,

and my bench broke and I was pinned down with the three other fellows on

top of me, and the big oar jammed across our backs."



"Well?" Charlie's eyes were alive and alight. He was looking at the wall

behind my chair.


