‘Now, little brother,’ he said, ‘go back to your wife and stamp all

you’ve a mind to.’



Away flew the Butterfly to his wife, who was crying, ‘I dare you to do

it! I dare you to do it! Stamp! Stamp now! Stamp!’ Balkis saw the four

vast Djinns stoop down to the four corners of the gardens with the

Palace in the middle, and she clapped her hands softly and said, ‘At

last Suleiman-bin-Daoud will do for the sake of a Butterfly what he

ought to have done long ago for his own sake, and the quarrelsome Queens

will be frightened!’



The the butterfly stamped. The Djinns jerked the Palace and the gardens

a thousand miles into the air: there was a most awful thunder-clap, and

everything grew inky-black. The Butterfly’s Wife fluttered about in the

dark, crying, ‘Oh, I’ll be good! I’m so sorry I spoke. Only bring the

gardens back, my dear darling husband, and I’ll never contradict again.’



The Butterfly was nearly as frightened as his wife, and

Suleiman-bin-Daoud laughed so much that it was several minutes before

he found breath enough to whisper to the Butterfly, ‘Stamp again, little

brother. Give me back my Palace, most great magician.’



‘Yes, give him back his Palace,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife, still flying

about in the dark like a moth. ‘Give him back his Palace, and don’t

let’s have any more horrid.magic.’



‘Well, my dear,’ said the Butterfly as bravely as he could, ‘you see

what your nagging has led to. Of course it doesn’t make any difference

to me--I’m used to this kind of thing--but as a favour to you and to

Suleiman-bin-Daoud I don’t mind putting things right.’



So he stamped once more, and that instant the Djinns let down the Palace

and the gardens, without even a bump. The sun shone on the dark-green

orange leaves; the fountains played among the pink Egyptian lilies; the

birds went on singing, and the Butterfly’s Wife lay on her side under

the camphor-tree waggling her wings and panting, ‘Oh, I’ll be good! I’ll

be good!’



Suleiman-bin-Daolld could hardly speak for laughing. He leaned back all

weak and hiccoughy, and shook his finger at the Butterfly and said, ‘O

great wizard, what is the sense of returning to me my Palace if at the

same time you slay me with mirth!’



Then came a terrible noise, for all the nine hundred and ninety-nine

Queens ran out of the Palace shrieking and shouting and calling for

their babies. They hurried down the great marble steps below the

fountain, one hundred abreast, and the Most Wise Balkis went statelily

forward to meet them and said, ‘What is your trouble, O Queens?’



They stood on the marble steps one hundred abreast and shouted, ‘What is

our trouble? We were living peacefully in our golden palace, as is our

custom, when upon a sudden the Palace disappeared, and we were left

sitting in a thick and noisome darkness; and it thundered, and Djinns

and Afrits moved about in the darkness! That is our trouble, O Head

Queen, and we are most extremely troubled on account of that trouble,

for it was a troublesome trouble, unlike any trouble we have known.’



Then Balkis the Most Beautiful Queen--Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Very Best

Beloved--Queen that was of Sheba and Sable and the Rivers of the Gold

of the South--from the Desert of Zinn to the Towers of Zimbabwe--Balkis,

almost as wise as the Most Wise Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself, said, ‘It

is nothing, O Queens! A Butterfly has made complaint against his

wife because she quarrelled with him, and it has pleased our Lord

Suleiman-bin-Daoud to teach her a lesson in low-speaking and humbleness,

for that is counted a virtue among the wives of the butterflies.’



Then up and spoke an Egyptian Queen--the daughter of a Pharoah--and she

said, ‘Our Palace cannot be plucked up by the roots like a leek for the

sake of a little insect. No! Suleiman-bin-Daoud must be dead, and what

we heard and saw was the earth thundering and darkening at the news.’



Then Balkis beckoned that bold Queen without looking at her, and said to

her and to the others, ‘Come and see.’



They came down the marble steps, one hundred abreast, and beneath his

camphor-tree, still weak with laughing, they saw the Most Wise King

Suleiman-bin-Daoud rocking back and forth with a Butterfly on either

hand, and they heard him say, ‘O wife of my brother in the air, remember

after this, to please your husband in all things, lest he be provoked to

stamp his foot yet again; for he has said that he is used to this magic,

and he is most eminently a great magician--one who steals away the very

Palace of Suleirnan-bin-Daoud himself. Go in peace, little folk!’ And he

kissed them on the wings, and they flew away.



Then all the Queens except Balkis--the Most Beautiful and Splendid

Balkis, who stood apart smiling--fell flat on their faces, for they

said, ‘If these things are done when a Butterfly is displeased with

his wife, what shall be done to us who have vexed our King with our

loud-speaking and open quarrelling through many days?’



Then they put their veils over their heads, and they put their hands

over their mouths, and they tiptoed back to the Palace most mousy-quiet.



Then Balkis--The Most Beautiful and Excellent Balkis--went forward

through the red lilies into the shade of the camphor-tree and laid

her hand upon Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s shoulder and said, ‘O my Lord and

Treasure of my Soul, rejoice, for we have taught the Queens of Egypt and

Ethiopia and Abyssinia and Persia and India and China with a great and a

memorable teaching.’



And Suleiman-bin-Daoud, still looking after the Butterflies where they

played in the sunlight, said, ‘O my Lady and Jewel of my Felicity, when

did this happen? For I have been jesting with a Butterfly ever since I

came into the garden.’ And he told Balkis what he had done.



Balkis--The tender and Most Lovely Balkis--said, ‘O my Lord and Regent

of my Existence, I hid behind the camphor-tree and saw it all. It was I

who told the Butterfly’s Wife to ask the Butterfly to stamp, because I

hoped that for the sake of the jest my Lord would make some great magic

and that the Queens would see it and be frightened.’ And she told him

what the Queens had said and seen and thought.



Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud rose up from his seat under the camphor-tree,

and stretched his arms and rejoiced and said, ‘O my Lady and Sweetener

of my Days, know that if I had made a magic against my Queens for the

sake of pride or anger, as I made that feast for all the animals, I

should certainly have been put to shame. But by means of your wisdom

I made the magic for the sake of a jest and for the sake of a little

Butterfly, and--behold--it has also delivered me from the vexations of

my vexatious wives! Tell me, therefore, O my Lady and Heart of my Heart,

how did you come to be so wise?’ And Balkis the Queen, beautiful and

tall, looked up into Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s eyes and put her head a little

on one side, just like the Butterfly, and said, ‘First, O my Lord,

because I loved you; and secondly, O my Lord, because I know what

women-folk are.’



Then they went up to the Palace and lived happily ever afterwards.



But wasn’t it clever of Balkis?





     THERE was never a Queen like Balkis,

       From here to the wide world’s end;

     But Balkis talked to a butterfly

       As you would talk to a friend.



     There was never a King like Solomon,

       Not since the world began;

     But Solomon talked to a butterfly

       As a man would talk to a man.



     She was Queen of Sabaea--

       And he was Asia’s Lord--

     But they both of ‘em talked to butterflies

       When they took their walks abroad!




