I cantered after Edith Copleigh, thinking to bring her back slowly on

some pretence or another. But she galloped away as soon as she saw me,

and I was forced to ride after her in earnest. She called back over her

shoulder--“Go away! I’m going home. Oh, go away!” two or three times;

but my business was to catch her first, and argue later. The ride just

fitted in with the rest of the evil dream. The ground was very bad, and

now and again we rushed through the whirling, choking “dust-devils” in

the skirts of the flying storm. There was a burning hot wind blowing

that brought up a stench of stale brick-kilns with it; and through the

half light and through the dust-devils, across that desolate plain,

flickered the brown holland habit on the gray horse. She headed for

the Station at first. Then she wheeled round and set off for the river

through beds of burnt down jungle-grass, bad even to ride a pig over. In

cold blood I should never have dreamed of going over such a country

at night, but it seemed quite right and natural with the lightning

crackling overhead, and a reek like the smell of the Pit in my nostrils.

I rode and shouted, and she bent forward and lashed her horse, and the

aftermath of the dust-storm came up and caught us both, and drove us

downwind like pieces of paper.



I don’t know how far we rode; but the drumming of the horse-hoofs and

the roar of the wind and the race of the faint blood-red moon through

the yellow mist seemed to have gone on for years and years, and I was

literally drenched with sweat from my helmet to my gaiters when the gray

stumbled, recovered himself, and pulled up dead lame. My brute was used

up altogether. Edith Copleigh was in a sad state, plastered with dust,

her helmet off, and crying bitterly. “Why can’t you let me alone?” she

said. “I only wanted to get away and go home. Oh, PLEASE let me go!”



“You have got to come back with me, Miss Copleigh. Saumarez has

something to say to you.”



It was a foolish way of putting it; but I hardly knew Miss Copleigh;

and, though I was playing Providence at the cost of my horse, I could

not tell her in as many words what Saumarez had told me. I thought he

could do that better himself. All her pretence about being tired and

wanting to go home broke down, and she rocked herself to and fro in the

saddle as she sobbed, and the hot wind blew her black hair to leeward. I

am not going to repeat what she said, because she was utterly unstrung.



This, if you please, was the cynical Miss Copleigh. Here was I, almost

an utter stranger to her, trying to tell her that Saumarez loved her

and she was to come back to hear him say so! I believe I made myself

understood, for she gathered the gray together and made him hobble

somehow, and we set off for the tomb, while the storm went thundering

down to Umballa and a few big drops of warm rain fell. I found out that

she had been standing close to Saumarez when he proposed to her sister

and had wanted to go home and cry in peace, as an English girl should.

She dabbled her eyes with her pocket-handkerchief as we went along, and

babbled to me out of sheer lightness of heart and hysteria. That was

perfectly unnatural; and yet, it seemed all right at the time and in the

place. All the world was only the two Copleigh girls, Saumarez and I,

ringed in with the lightning and the dark; and the guidance of this

misguided world seemed to lie in my hands.



When we returned to the tomb in the deep, dead stillness that followed

the storm, the dawn was just breaking and nobody had gone away. They

were waiting for our return. Saumarez most of all. His face was white

and drawn. As Miss Copleigh and I limped up, he came forward to meet us,

and, when he helped her down from her saddle, he kissed her before

all the picnic. It was like a scene in a theatre, and the likeness was

heightened by all the dust-white, ghostly-looking men and women under

the orange-trees, clapping their hands, as if they were watching a

play--at Saumarez’s choice. I never knew anything so un-English in my

life.



Lastly, Saumarez said we must all go home or the Station would come

out to look for us, and WOULD I be good enough to ride home with Maud

Copleigh? Nothing would give me greater pleasure, I said.



So, we formed up, six couples in all, and went back two by two; Saumarez

walking at the side of Edith Copleigh, who was riding his horse.



The air was cleared; and little by little, as the sun rose, I felt we

were all dropping back again into ordinary men and women and that

the “Great Pop Picnic” was a thing altogether apart and out of the

world--never to happen again. It had gone with the dust-storm and the

tingle in the hot air.



I felt tired and limp, and a good deal ashamed of myself as I went in

for a bath and some sleep.



There is a woman’s version of this story, but it will never be

written.... unless Maud Copleigh cares to try.









THE RESCUE OF PLUFFLES.





     Thus, for a season, they fought it fair--

       She and his cousin May--

     Tactful, talented, debonnaire,

       Decorous foes were they;

     But never can battle of man compare

       With merciless feminine fray.



                            Two and One.





Mrs. Hauksbee was sometimes nice to her own sex. Here is a story to

prove this; and you can believe just as much as ever you please.



Pluffles was a subaltern in the “Unmentionables.” He was callow, even

for a subaltern. He was callow all over--like a canary that had not

finished fledging itself. The worst of it was he had three times as much

money as was good for him; Pluffles’ Papa being a rich man and Pluffles

being the only son. Pluffles’ Mamma adored him. She was only a little

less callow than Pluffles and she believed everything he said.



Pluffles’ weakness was not believing what people said. He preferred what

he called “trusting to his own judgment.” He had as much judgment as he

had seat or hands; and this preference tumbled him into trouble once or

twice. But the biggest trouble Pluffles ever manufactured came about at

Simla--some years ago, when he was four-and-twenty.



He began by trusting to his own judgment, as usual, and the result

was that, after a time, he was bound hand and foot to Mrs. Reiver’s

‘rickshaw wheels.



There was nothing good about Mrs. Reiver, unless it was her dress.

She was bad from her hair--which started life on a Brittany’s girl’s

head--to her boot-heels, which were two and three-eighth inches high.

She was not honestly mischievous like Mrs. Hauksbee; she was wicked in a

business-like way.



There was never any scandal--she had not generous impulses enough for

that. She was the exception which proved the rule that Anglo-Indian

ladies are in every way as nice as their sisters at Home. She spent her

life in proving that rule.



Mrs. Hauksbee and she hated each other fervently. They heard far

too much to clash; but the things they said of each other were

startling--not to say original. Mrs. Hauksbee was honest--honest as her

own front teeth--and, but for her love of mischief, would have been

a woman’s woman. There was no honesty about Mrs. Reiver; nothing but

selfishness. And at the beginning of the season, poor little Pluffles

fell a prey to her. She laid herself out to that end, and who was

Pluffles, to resist? He went on trusting to his judgment, and he got

judged.



I have seen Hayes argue with a tough horse--I have seen a tonga-driver

coerce a stubborn pony--I have seen a riotous setter broken to gun by a

hard keeper--but the breaking-in of Pluffles of the “Unmentionables” was

beyond all these. He learned to fetch and carry like a dog, and to

wait like one, too, for a word from Mrs. Reiver. He learned to keep

appointments which Mrs. Reiver had no intention of keeping. He learned

to take thankfully dances which Mrs. Reiver had no intention of giving

him. He learned to shiver for an hour and a quarter on the windward side

of Elysium while Mrs. Reiver was making up her mind to come for a

ride. He learned to hunt for a ‘rickshaw, in a light dress-suit under

a pelting rain, and to walk by the side of that ‘rickshaw when he had

found it. He learned what it was to be spoken to like a coolie and

ordered about like a cook. He learned all this and many other things

besides. And he paid for his schooling.



Perhaps, in some hazy way, he fancied that it was fine and impressive,

that it gave him a status among men, and was altogether the thing to do.

It was nobody’s business to warn Pluffles that he was unwise. The pace

that season was too good to inquire; and meddling with another man’s

folly is always thankless work. Pluffles’ Colonel should have ordered

him back to his regiment when he heard how things were going. But

Pluffles had got himself engaged to a girl in England the last time

he went home; and if there was one thing more than another which the

Colonel detested, it was a married subaltern. He chuckled when he heard

of the education of Pluffles, and said it was “good training for

the boy.” But it was not good training in the least. It led him into

spending money beyond his means, which were good: above that, the

education spoilt an average boy and made it a tenth-rate man of an

objectionable kind. He wandered into a bad set, and his little bill at

Hamilton’s was a thing to wonder at.



Then Mrs. Hauksbee rose to the occasion. She played her game alone,

knowing what people would say of her; and she played it for the sake of

a girl she had never seen. Pluffles’ fiancee was to come out, under the

chaperonage of an aunt, in October, to be married to Pluffles.



At the beginning of August, Mrs. Hauksbee discovered that it was time to

interfere. A man who rides much knows exactly what a horse is going to

do next before he does it. In the same way, a woman of Mrs. Hauksbee’s

experience knows accurately how a boy will behave under certain

circumstances--notably when he is infatuated with one of Mrs. Reiver’s

stamp. She said that, sooner or later, little Pluffles would break off

that engagement for nothing at all--simply to gratify Mrs. Reiver, who,

in return, would keep him at her feet and in her service just so long

as she found it worth her while. She said she knew the signs of these

things. If she did not, no one else could.



Then she went forth to capture Pluffles under the guns of the enemy;

just as Mrs. Cusack-Bremmil carried away Bremmil under Mrs. Hauksbee’s

eyes.


