The queerness of the situation and the reply, made Mrs. Landys-Haggert

laugh. Then it all came out; and at the end of Hannasyde’s lucid

explanation, Mrs. Haggert said, with the least little touch of scorn in

her voice:--“So I’m to act as the lay-figure for you to hang the rags of

your tattered affections on, am I?”



Hannasyde didn’t see what answer was required, and he devoted himself

generally and vaguely to the praise of Alice Chisane, which was

unsatisfactory. Now it is to be thoroughly made clear that Mrs. Haggert

had not the shadow of a ghost of an interest in Hannasyde. Only....

only no woman likes being made love through instead of to--specially on

behalf of a musty divinity of four years’ standing.



Hannasyde did not see that he had made any very particular exhibition

of himself. He was glad to find a sympathetic soul in the arid wastes of

Simla.



When the season ended, Hannasyde went down to his own place and Mrs.

Haggert to hers. “It was like making love to a ghost,” said Hannasyde

to himself, “and it doesn’t matter; and now I’ll get to my work.” But

he found himself thinking steadily of the Haggert-Chisane ghost; and he

could not be certain whether it was Haggert or Chisane that made up the

greater part of the pretty phantom.

He got understanding a month later.



A peculiar point of this peculiar country is the way in which a

heartless Government transfers men from one end of the Empire to the

other. You can never be sure of getting rid of a friend or an enemy till

he or she dies. There was a case once--but that’s another story.



Haggert’s Department ordered him up from Dindigul to the Frontier at

two days’ notice, and he went through, losing money at every step, from

Dindigul to his station. He dropped Mrs. Haggert at Lucknow, to stay

with some friends there, to take part in a big ball at the Chutter

Munzil, and to come on when he had made the new home a little

comfortable. Lucknow was Hannasyde’s station, and Mrs. Haggert stayed

a week there. Hannasyde went to meet her. And the train came in,

he discovered which he had been thinking of for the past month. The

unwisdom of his conduct also struck him. The Lucknow week, with two

dances, and an unlimited quantity of rides together, clinched matters;

and Hannasyde found himself pacing this circle of thought:--He

adored Alice Chisane--at least he HAD adored her. AND he admired

Mrs. Landys-Haggert because she was like Alice Chisane. BUT Mrs.

Landys-Haggert was not in the least like Alice Chisane, being a thousand

times more adorable. NOW Alice Chisane was “the bride of another,” and

so was Mrs. Landys-Haggert, and a good and honest wife too. THEREFORE,

he, Hannasyde, was.... here he called himself several hard names, and

wished that he had been wise in the beginning.



Whether Mrs. Landys-Haggert saw what was going on in his mind, she alone

knows. He seemed to take an unqualified interest in everything connected

with herself, as distinguished from the Alice-Chisane likeness, and he

said one or two things which, if Alice Chisane had been still betrothed

to him, could scarcely have been excused, even on the grounds of the

likeness. But Mrs. Haggert turned the remarks aside, and spent a long

time in making Hannasyde see what a comfort and a pleasure she had been

to him because of her strange resemblance to his old love. Hannasyde

groaned in his saddle and said, “Yes, indeed,” and busied himself with

preparations for her departure to the Frontier, feeling very small and

miserable.



The last day of her stay at Lucknow came, and Hannasyde saw her off

at the Railway Station. She was very grateful for his kindness and the

trouble he had taken, and smiled pleasantly and sympathetically as one

who knew the Alice-Chisane reason of that kindness. And Hannasyde abused

the coolies with the luggage, and hustled the people on the platform,

and prayed that the roof might fall in and slay him.



As the train went out slowly, Mrs. Landys-Haggert leaned out of the

window to say goodbye:--“On second thoughts au revoir, Mr. Hannasyde. I

go Home in the Spring, and perhaps I may meet you in Town.”



Hannasyde shook hands, and said very earnestly and adoringly:--“I hope

to Heaven I shall never see your face again!”



And Mrs. Haggert understood.









WRESSLEY OF THE FOREIGN OFFICE.





     I closed and drew for my love’s sake,

       That now is false to me,

     And I slew the Riever of Tarrant Moss,

       And set Dumeny free.



     And ever they give me praise and gold,

       And ever I moan my loss,

     For I struck the blow for my false love’s sake,

       And not for the men at the Moss.



                                   Tarrant Moss.





One of the many curses of our life out here is the want of atmosphere in

the painter’s sense. There are no half-tints worth noticing. Men stand

out all crude and raw, with nothing to tone them down, and nothing to

scale them against. They do their work, and grow to think that there is

nothing but their work, and nothing like their work, and that they are

the real pivots on which the administration turns. Here is an instance

of this feeling. A half-caste clerk was ruling forms in a Pay Office. He

said to me:--“Do you know what would happen if I added or took away one

single line on this sheet?” Then, with the air of a conspirator:--“It

would disorganize the whole of the Treasury payments throughout the

whole of the Presidency Circle! Think of that?”



If men had not this delusion as to the ultra-importance of their own

particular employments, I suppose that they would sit down and kill

themselves. But their weakness is wearisome, particularly when the

listener knows that he himself commits exactly the same sin.



Even the Secretariat believes that it does good when it asks an

over-driven Executive Officer to take census of wheat-weevils through a

district of five thousand square miles.



There was a man once in the Foreign Office--a man who had grown

middle-aged in the department, and was commonly said, by irreverent

juniors, to be able to repeat Aitchison’s “Treaties and Sunnuds”

 backwards, in his sleep. What he did with his stored knowledge only the

Secretary knew; and he, naturally, would not publish the news abroad.

This man’s name was Wressley, and it was the Shibboleth, in those days,

to say:--“Wressley knows more about the Central Indian States than any

living man.” If you did not say this, you were considered one of mean

understanding.



Now-a-days, the man who says that he knows the ravel of the inter-tribal

complications across the Border is of more use; but in Wressley’s time,

much attention was paid to the Central Indian States. They were called

“foci” and “factors,” and all manner of imposing names.



And here the curse of Anglo-Indian life fell heavily. When Wressley

lifted up his voice, and spoke about such-and-such a succession to

such-and-such a throne, the Foreign Office were silent, and Heads

of Departments repeated the last two or three words of Wressley’s

sentences, and tacked “yes, yes,” on them, and knew that they were

“assisting the Empire to grapple with serious political contingencies.”

 In most big undertakings, one or two men do the work while the rest sit

near and talk till the ripe decorations begin to fall.



Wressley was the working-member of the Foreign Office firm, and, to keep

him up to his duties when he showed signs of flagging, he was made

much of by his superiors and told what a fine fellow he was. He did not

require coaxing, because he was of tough build, but what he received

confirmed him in the belief that there was no one quite so absolutely

and imperatively necessary to the stability of India as Wressley of the

Foreign Office. There might be other good men, but the known, honored

and trusted man among men was Wressley of the Foreign Office. We had a

Viceroy in those days who knew exactly when to “gentle” a fractious big

man and to hearten up a collar-galled little one, and so keep all his

team level. He conveyed to Wressley the impression which I have just

set down; and even tough men are apt to be disorganized by a Viceroy’s

praise. There was a case once--but that is another story.



All India knew Wressley’s name and office--it was in Thacker and Spink’s

Directory--but who he was personally, or what he did, or what his

special merits were, not fifty men knew or cared. His work filled all

his time, and he found no leisure to cultivate acquaintances beyond

those of dead Rajput chiefs with Ahir blots in their ‘scutcheons.

Wressley would have made a very good Clerk in the Herald’s College had

he not been a Bengal Civilian.



Upon a day, between office and office, great trouble came to

Wressley--overwhelmed him, knocked him down, and left him gasping

as though he had been a little school-boy. Without reason, against

prudence, and at a moment’s notice, he fell in love with a frivolous,

golden-haired girl who used to tear about Simla Mall on a high, rough

waler, with a blue velvet jockey-cap crammed over her eyes. Her name was

Venner--Tillie Venner--and she was delightful. She took Wressley’s heart

at a hand-gallop, and Wressley found that it was not good for man to

live alone; even with half the Foreign Office Records in his presses.



Then Simla laughed, for Wressley in love was slightly ridiculous. He did

his best to interest the girl in himself--that is to say, his work--and

she, after the manner of women, did her best to appear interested in

what, behind his back, she called “Mr. Wressley’s Wajahs”; for she

lisped very prettily. She did not understand one little thing about

them, but she acted as if she did. Men have married on that sort of

error before now.



Providence, however, had care of Wressley. He was immensely struck with

Miss Venner’s intelligence. He would have been more impressed had

he heard her private and confidential accounts of his calls. He held

peculiar notions as to the wooing of girls. He said that the best work

of a man’s career should be laid reverently at their feet. Ruskin writes

something like this somewhere, I think; but in ordinary life a few

kisses are better and save time.


