Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years, and only

guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves,

because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books. He

grew up with the cubs, though they, of course, were grown wolves almost

before he was a child. And Father Wolf taught him his business, and the

meaning of things in the jungle, till every rustle in the grass, every

breath of the warm night air, every note of the owls above his head,

every scratch of a bat’s claws as it roosted for a while in a tree, and

every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much

to him as the work of his office means to a business man. When he was

not learning he sat out in the sun and slept, and ate and went to sleep

again. When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools; and

when he wanted honey (Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as

pleasant to eat as raw meat) he climbed up for it, and that Bagheera

showed him how to do. Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call, “Come

along, Little Brother,” and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth,

but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as

boldly as the gray ape. He took his place at the Council Rock, too,

when the Pack met, and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any

wolf, the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes, and so he used to stare

for fun. At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads

of his friends, for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their

coats. He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night,

and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts, but he had a

mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop

gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it,

and told him that it was a trap. He loved better than anything else to

go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest, to sleep all

through the drowsy day, and at night see how Bagheera did his

killing. Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry, and so did

Mowgli--with one exception. As soon as he was old enough to understand

things, Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had

been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull’s life. “All the jungle

is thine,” said Bagheera, “and thou canst kill everything that thou art

strong enough to kill; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee

thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. That is the Law of

the Jungle.” Mowgli obeyed faithfully.



And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that

he is learning any lessons, and who has nothing in the world to think of

except things to eat.



Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature

to be trusted, and that some day he must kill Shere Khan. But though a

young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour, Mowgli forgot

it because he was only a boy--though he would have called himself a wolf

if he had been able to speak in any human tongue.



Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle, for as Akela grew

older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the

younger wolves of the Pack, who followed him for scraps, a thing Akela

would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the

proper bounds. Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such

fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man’s

cub. “They tell me,” Shere Khan would say, “that at Council ye dare

not look him between the eyes.” And the young wolves would growl and

bristle.



Bagheera, who had eyes and ears everywhere, knew something of this, and

once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill

him some day. Mowgli would laugh and answer: “I have the Pack and I have

thee; and Baloo, though he is so lazy, might strike a blow or two for my

sake. Why should I be afraid?”



It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera--born of

something that he had heard. Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine had told him;

but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the jungle, as the boy lay

with his head on Bagheera’s beautiful black skin, “Little Brother, how

often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy?”



“As many times as there are nuts on that palm,” said Mowgli, who,

naturally, could not count. “What of it? I am sleepy, Bagheera, and

Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk--like Mao, the Peacock.”



“But this is no time for sleeping. Baloo knows it; I know it; the Pack

know it; and even the foolish, foolish deer know. Tabaqui has told thee

too.”



“Ho! ho!” said Mowgli. “Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude

talk that I was a naked man’s cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts. But I

caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree to

teach him better manners.”



“That was foolishness, for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker, he would

have told thee of something that concerned thee closely. Open those

eyes, Little Brother. Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle. But

remember, Akela is very old, and soon the day comes when he cannot kill

his buck, and then he will be leader no more. Many of the wolves that

looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old

too, and the young wolves believe, as Shere Khan has taught them, that

a man-cub has no place with the Pack. In a little time thou wilt be a

man.”



“And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers?” said

Mowgli. “I was born in the jungle. I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle,

and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn.

Surely they are my brothers!”



Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes.

“Little Brother,” said he, “feel under my jaw.”



Mowgli put up his strong brown hand, and just under Bagheera’s silky

chin, where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair,

he came upon a little bald spot.



“There is no one in the jungle that knows that I, Bagheera, carry that

mark--the mark of the collar; and yet, Little Brother, I was born among

men, and it was among men that my mother died--in the cages of the

king’s palace at Oodeypore. It was because of this that I paid the price

for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub. Yes, I too

was born among men. I had never seen the jungle. They fed me behind

bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera--the

Panther--and no man’s plaything, and I broke the silly lock with one

blow of my paw and came away. And because I had learned the ways of men,

I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan. Is it not so?”



“Yes,” said Mowgli, “all the jungle fear Bagheera--all except Mowgli.”



“Oh, thou art a man’s cub,” said the Black Panther very tenderly. “And

even as I returned to my jungle, so thou must go back to men at last--to

the men who are thy brothers--if thou art not killed in the Council.”



“But why--but why should any wish to kill me?” said Mowgli.



“Look at me,” said Bagheera. And Mowgli looked at him steadily between

the eyes. The big panther turned his head away in half a minute.



“That is why,” he said, shifting his paw on the leaves. “Not even I can

look thee between the eyes, and I was born among men, and I love thee,

Little Brother. The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot meet

thine; because thou art wise; because thou hast pulled out thorns from

their feet--because thou art a man.”



“I did not know these things,” said Mowgli sullenly, and he frowned

under his heavy black eyebrows.



“What is the Law of the Jungle? Strike first and then give tongue. By

thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man. But be wise. It is

in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill--and at each hunt

it costs him more to pin the buck--the Pack will turn against him and

against thee. They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock, and then--and

then--I have it!” said Bagheera, leaping up. “Go thou down quickly to

the men’s huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which they

grow there, so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger

friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee. Get the Red

Flower.”



By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire, only no creature in the jungle will

call fire by its proper name. Every beast lives in deadly fear of it,

and invents a hundred ways of describing it.



“The Red Flower?” said Mowgli. “That grows outside their huts in the

twilight. I will get some.”



“There speaks the man’s cub,” said Bagheera proudly. “Remember that it

grows in little pots. Get one swiftly, and keep it by thee for time of

need.”



“Good!” said Mowgli. “I go. But art thou sure, O my Bagheera”--he

slipped his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the big

eyes--“art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan’s doing?”



“By the Broken Lock that freed me, I am sure, Little Brother.”



“Then, by the Bull that bought me, I will pay Shere Khan full tale for

this, and it may be a little over,” said Mowgli, and he bounded away.



“That is a man. That is all a man,” said Bagheera to himself, lying down

again. “Oh, Shere Khan, never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt

of thine ten years ago!”



Mowgli was far and far through the forest, running hard, and his heart

was hot in him. He came to the cave as the evening mist rose, and drew

breath, and looked down the valley. The cubs were out, but Mother

Wolf, at the back of the cave, knew by his breathing that something was

troubling her frog.



“What is it, Son?” she said.



“Some bat’s chatter of Shere Khan,” he called back. “I hunt among the

plowed fields tonight,” and he plunged downward through the bushes, to

the stream at the bottom of the valley. There he checked, for he heard

the yell of the Pack hunting, heard the bellow of a hunted Sambhur,

and the snort as the buck turned at bay. Then there were wicked, bitter

howls from the young wolves: “Akela! Akela! Let the Lone Wolf show his

strength. Room for the leader of the Pack! Spring, Akela!”



The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold, for Mowgli heard the

snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked him over with

his forefoot.



He did not wait for anything more, but dashed on; and the yells grew

fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers

lived.



“Bagheera spoke truth,” he panted, as he nestled down in some cattle

fodder by the window of a hut. “To-morrow is one day both for Akela and

for me.”


