Tegumai got up and danced. (Daddies didn’t mind doing those things in

those days.) ‘More than that! More than that!’ he said. ‘S’pose I wanted

to tell you it wasn’t going to rain much and you must come down to the

river, what would we draw? Say the words in Tegumai-talk first.’



‘Shu-ya-las, ya maru. (Sky-water ending. River come to.) what a lot of

new sounds! I don’t see how we can draw them.’



‘But I do--but I do!’ said Tegumai. ‘Just attend a minute, Taffy, and

we won’t do any more to-day. We’ve got shu-ya all right, haven’t we? But

this las is a teaser. La-la-la’ and he waved his shark-tooth.



‘There’s the hissy-snake at the end and the carp-mouth before the

snake--as-as-as. We only want la-la,’ said Taffy.



‘I know it, but we have to make la-la. And we’re the first people in all

the world who’ve ever tried to do it, Taffimai!’



‘Well,’ said Taffy, yawning, for she was rather tired. ‘Las means

breaking or finishing as well as ending, doesn’t it?’



‘So it does,’ said Tegumai. ‘To-las means that there’s no water in the

tank for Mummy to cook with--just when I’m going hunting, too.’



‘And shi-las means that your spear is broken. If I’d only thought of

that instead of drawing silly beaver pictures for the Stranger!’



‘La! La! La!’ said Tegumai, waiving his stick and frowning. ‘Oh bother!’



‘I could have drawn shi quite easily,’ Taffy went on. ‘Then I’d have

drawn your spear all broken--this way!’ And she drew. (14.)



‘The very thing,’ said Tegumai. ‘That’s la all over. It isn’t like any

of the other marks either.’ And he drew this. (15.)



‘Now for ya. Oh, we’ve done that before. Now for maru. Mum-mum-mum. Mum

shuts one’s mouth up, doesn’t it? We’ll draw a shut mouth like this.’

And he drew. (16.)



‘Then the carp-mouth open. That makes Ma-ma-ma! But what about this

rrrrr-thing, Taffy?’



‘It sounds all rough and edgy, like your shark-tooth saw when you’re

cutting out a plank for the canoe,’ said Taffy.



‘You mean all sharp at the edges, like this?’ said Tegumai. And he drew.

(17.)



‘’Xactly,’ said Taffy. ‘But we don’t want all those teeth: only put

two.’



‘I’ll only put in one,’ said Tegumai. ‘If this game of ours is going

to be what I think it will, the easier we make our sound-pictures the

better for everybody.’ And he drew. (18.)



‘Now, we’ve got it,’ said Tegumai, standing on one leg. ‘I’ll draw ‘em

all in a string like fish.’



‘Hadn’t we better put a little bit of stick or something between each

word, so’s they won’t rub up against each other and jostle, same as if

they were carps?’



‘Oh, I’ll leave a space for that,’ said her Daddy. And very incitedly he

drew them all without stopping, on a big new bit of birch-bark. (19.)



‘Shu-ya-las ya-maru,’ said Taffy, reading it out sound by sound.





‘That’s enough for to-day,’ said Tegumai. ‘Besides, you’re getting

tired, Taffy. Never mind, dear. We’ll finish it all to-morrow, and then

we’ll be remembered for years and years after the biggest trees you can

see are all chopped up for firewood.’



So they went home, and all that evening Tegumai sat on one side of the

fire and Taffy on the other, drawing ya’s and yo’s and shu’s and shi’s

in the smoke on the wall and giggling together till her Mummy said,

‘Really, Tegumai, you’re worse than my Taffy.’



‘Please don’t mind,’ said Taffy. ‘It’s only our secret-s’prise, Mummy

dear, and we’ll tell you all about it the very minute it’s done; but

please don’t ask me what it is now, or else I’ll have to tell.’



So her Mummy most carefully didn’t; and bright and early next morning

Tegumai went down to the river to think about new sound pictures,

and when Taffy got up she saw Ya-las (water is ending or running out)

chalked on the side of the big stone water-tank, outside the Cave.



‘Um,’ said Taffy. ‘These picture-sounds are rather a bother! Daddy’s

just as good as come here himself and told me to get more water for

Mummy to cook with.’ She went to the spring at the back of the house and

filled the tank from a bark bucket, and then she ran down to the river

and pulled her Daddy’s left ear--the one that belonged to her to pull

when she was good.



‘Now come along and we’ll draw all the left-over sound-pictures,’ said

her Daddy, and they had a most inciting day of it, and a beautiful lunch

in the middle, and two games of romps. When they came to T, Taffy said

that as her name, and her Daddy’s, and her Mummy’s all began with that

sound, they should draw a sort of family group of themselves holding

hands. That was all very well to draw once or twice; but when it came to

drawing it six or seven times, Taffy and Tegumai drew it scratchier and

scratchier, till at last the T-sound was only a thin long Tegumai with

his arms out to hold Taffy and Teshumai. You can see from these three

pictures partly how it happened. (20, 21, 22.)



Many of the other pictures were much too beautiful to begin with,

especially before lunch, but as they were drawn over and over again on

birch-bark, they became plainer and easier, till at last even Tegumai

said he could find no fault with them. They turned the hissy-snake the

other way round for the Z-sound, to show it was hissing backwards in a

soft and gentle way (23); and they just made a twiddle for E, because

it came into the pictures so often (24); and they drew pictures of the

sacred Beaver of the Tegumais for the B-sound (25, 26, 27, 28); and

because it was a nasty, nosy noise, they just drew noses for the

N-sound, till they were tired (29); and they drew a picture of the big

lake-pike’s mouth for the greedy Ga-sound (30); and they drew the pike’s

mouth again with a spear behind it for the scratchy, hurty Ka-sound

(31); and they drew pictures of a little bit of the winding Wagai river

for the nice windy-windy Wa-sound (32, 33); and so on and so forth and

so following till they had done and drawn all the sound-pictures that

they wanted, and there was the Alphabet, all complete.



And after thousands and thousands and thousands of years, and after

Hieroglyphics and Demotics, and Nilotics, and Cryptics, and Cufics, and

Runics, and Dorics, and Ionics, and all sorts of other ricks and

tricks (because the Woons, and the Neguses, and the Akhoonds, and the

Repositories of Tradition would never leave a good thing alone when they

saw it), the fine old easy, understandable Alphabet--A, B, C, D, E,

and the rest of ‘em--got back into its proper shape again for all Best

Beloveds to learn when they are old enough.



But I remember Tegumai Bopsulai, and Taffimai Metallumai and Teshumai

Tewindrow, her dear Mummy, and all the days gone by. And it was so--just

so--a little time ago--on the banks of the big Wagai!



     OF all the Tribe of Tegumai

       Who cut that figure, none remain,--

     On Merrow Down the cuckoos cry

       The silence and the sun remain.



     But as the faithful years return

       And hearts unwounded sing again,

     Comes Taffy dancing through the fern

       To lead the Surrey spring again.



     Her brows are bound with bracken-fronds,

       And golden elf-locks fly above;

     Her eyes are bright as diamonds

       And bluer than the skies above.



     In mocassins and deer-skin cloak,

       Unfearing, free and fair she flits,

     And lights her little damp-wood smoke

       To show her Daddy where she flits.



     For far--oh, very far behind,

       So far she cannot call to him,

     Comes Tegumai alone to find

       The daughter that was all to him.






