Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends any more,

for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the hind flippers,

whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a pile. That was enough

for Kotick. He turned and galloped (a seal can gallop very swiftly for

a short time) back to the sea; his little new mustache bristling with

horror. At Sea Lion’s Neck, where the great sea lions sit on the edge

of the surf, he flung himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and

rocked there, gasping miserably. “What’s here?” said a sea lion gruffly,

for as a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves.



“Scoochnie! Ochen scoochnie!” (“I’m lonesome, very lonesome!”) said

Kotick. “They’re killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches!”



The Sea Lion turned his head inshore. “Nonsense!” he said. “Your

friends are making as much noise as ever. You must have seen old Kerick

polishing off a drove. He’s done that for thirty years.”



“It’s horrible,” said Kotick, backing water as a wave went over him, and

steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him

all standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock.



“Well done for a yearling!” said the Sea Lion, who could appreciate good

swimming. “I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it,

but if you seals will come here year after year, of course the men get

to know of it, and unless you can find an island where no men ever come

you will always be driven.”



“Isn’t there any such island?” began Kotick.



“I’ve followed the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty years, and I can’t

say I’ve found it yet. But look here--you seem to have a fondness for

talking to your betters--suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to

Sea Vitch. He may know something. Don’t flounce off like that. It’s a

six-mile swim, and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first,

little one.”



Kotick thought that that was good advice, so he swam round to his own

beach, hauled out, and slept for half an hour, twitching all over, as

seals will. Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet, a little low sheet

of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah, all ledges and

rock and gulls’ nests, where the walrus herded by themselves.



He landed close to old Sea Vitch--the big, ugly, bloated, pimpled,

fat-necked, long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific, who has no manners

except when he is asleep--as he was then, with his hind flippers half in

and half out of the surf.



“Wake up!” barked Kotick, for the gulls were making a great noise.



“Hah! Ho! Hmph! What’s that?” said Sea Vitch, and he struck the next

walrus a blow with his tusks and waked him up, and the next struck the

next, and so on till they were all awake and staring in every direction

but the right one.



“Hi! It’s me,” said Kotick, bobbing in the surf and looking like a

little white slug.



“Well! May I be--skinned!” said Sea Vitch, and they all looked at Kotick

as you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentlemen would look at a

little boy. Kotick did not care to hear any more about skinning just

then; he had seen enough of it. So he called out: “Isn’t there any place

for seals to go where men don’t ever come?”



“Go and find out,” said Sea Vitch, shutting his eyes. “Run away. We’re

busy here.”



Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as he could:

“Clam-eater! Clam-eater!” He knew that Sea Vitch never caught a fish in

his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed; though he pretended to

be a very terrible person. Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies

and the Epatkas--the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the

Puffins, who are always looking for a chance to be rude, took up the

cry, and--so Limmershin told me--for nearly five minutes you could not

have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet. All the population was yelling

and screaming “Clam-eater! Stareek [old man]!” while Sea Vitch rolled

from side to side grunting and coughing.



“Now will you tell?” said Kotick, all out of breath.



“Go and ask Sea Cow,” said Sea Vitch. “If he is living still, he’ll be

able to tell you.”



“How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him?” said Kotick, sheering off.



“He’s the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch,” screamed a

Burgomaster gull, wheeling under Sea Vitch’s nose. “Uglier, and with

worse manners! Stareek!”



Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah, leaving the gulls to scream. There he

found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover

a quiet place for the seals. They told him that men had always driven

the holluschickie--it was part of the day’s work--and that if he did not

like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds.

But none of the other seals had seen the killing, and that made the

difference between him and his friends. Besides, Kotick was a white

seal.



“What you must do,” said old Sea Catch, after he had heard his son’s

adventures, “is to grow up and be a big seal like your father, and have

a nursery on the beach, and then they will leave you alone. In another

five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself.” Even gentle

Matkah, his mother, said: “You will never be able to stop the killing.

Go and play in the sea, Kotick.” And Kotick went off and danced the

Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart.



That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could, and set off alone

because of a notion in his bullet-head. He was going to find Sea Cow,

if there was such a person in the sea, and he was going to find a quiet

island with good firm beaches for seals to live on, where men could not

get at them. So he explored and explored by himself from the North to

the South Pacific, swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day

and a night. He met with more adventures than can be told, and narrowly

escaped being caught by the Basking Shark, and the Spotted Shark, and

the Hammerhead, and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up

and down the seas, and the heavy polite fish, and the scarlet spotted

scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years, and grow

very proud of it; but he never met Sea Cow, and he never found an island

that he could fancy.



If the beach was good and hard, with a slope behind it for seals to play

on, there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon, boiling down

blubber, and Kotick knew what that meant. Or else he could see that

seals had once visited the island and been killed off, and Kotick knew

that where men had come once they would come again.



He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross, who told him that

Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet, and when Kotick

went down there he was all but smashed to pieces against some wicked

black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder. Yet as

he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once

been a seal nursery. And it was so in all the other islands that he

visited.



Limmershin gave a long list of them, for he said that Kotick spent five

seasons exploring, with a four months’ rest each year at Novastoshnah,

when the holluschickie used to make fun of him and his imaginary

islands. He went to the Gallapagos, a horrid dry place on the Equator,

where he was nearly baked to death; he went to the Georgia Islands,

the Orkneys, Emerald Island, Little Nightingale Island, Gough’s Island,

Bouvet’s Island, the Crossets, and even to a little speck of an island

south of the Cape of Good Hope. But everywhere the People of the Sea

told him the same things. Seals had come to those islands once upon a

time, but men had killed them all off. Even when he swam thousands of

miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes (that

was when he was coming back from Gough’s Island), he found a few hundred

mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too.



That nearly broke his heart, and he headed round the Horn back to his

own beaches; and on his way north he hauled out on an island full of

green trees, where he found an old, old seal who was dying, and Kotick

caught fish for him and told him all his sorrows. “Now,” said Kotick,

“I am going back to Novastoshnah, and if I am driven to the killing-pens

with the holluschickie I shall not care.”



The old seal said, “Try once more. I am the last of the Lost Rookery of

Masafuera, and in the days when men killed us by the hundred thousand

there was a story on the beaches that some day a white seal would come

out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place. I am old,

and I shall never live to see that day, but others will. Try once more.”



And Kotick curled up his mustache (it was a beauty) and said, “I am the

only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches, and I am the

only seal, black or white, who ever thought of looking for new islands.”



This cheered him immensely; and when he came back to Novastoshnah that

summer, Matkah, his mother, begged him to marry and settle down, for

he was no longer a holluschick but a full-grown sea-catch, with a curly

white mane on his shoulders, as heavy, as big, and as fierce as his

father. “Give me another season,” he said. “Remember, Mother, it is

always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach.”



Curiously enough, there was another seal who thought that she would put

off marrying till the next year, and Kotick danced the Fire-dance with

her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he set off on his last

exploration. This time he went westward, because he had fallen on the

trail of a great shoal of halibut, and he needed at least one hundred

pounds of fish a day to keep him in good condition. He chased them till

he was tired, and then he curled himself up and went to sleep on the

hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island. He knew the

coast perfectly well, so about midnight, when he felt himself gently

bumped on a weed-bed, he said, “Hm, tide’s running strong tonight,” and

turning over under water opened his eyes slowly and stretched. Then

he jumped like a cat, for he saw huge things nosing about in the shoal

water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds.



“By the Great Combers of Magellan!” he said, beneath his mustache. “Who

in the Deep Sea are these people?”



They were like no walrus, sea lion, seal, bear, whale, shark, fish,

squid, or scallop that Kotick had ever seen before. They were between

twenty and thirty feet long, and they had no hind flippers, but a

shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet

leather. Their heads were the most foolish-looking things you ever saw,

and they balanced on the ends of their tails in deep water when they

weren’t grazing, bowing solemnly to each other and waving their front

flippers as a fat man waves his arm.



“Ahem!” said Kotick.
