He was grey and he was woolly, and his pride was inordinate: he danced

on a rock-ledge in the middle of Australia, and he went to the Middle

God Nquing.



He went to Nquing at eight after breakfast, saying, ‘Make me different

from all other animals; make me, also, wonderfully popular by five this

afternoon.’



Up jumped Nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shouted, ‘Go away!’



He was grey and he was woolly, and his pride was inordinate: he danced

on a sandbank in the middle of Australia, and he went to the Big God

Nqong.



He went to Nqong at ten before dinner-time, saying, ‘Make me different

from all other animals; make me popular and wonderfully run after by

five this afternoon.’



Up jumped Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan and shouted, ‘Yes, I

will!’



Nqong called Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--always hungry, dusty in the

sunshine, and showed him Kangaroo. Nqong said, ‘Dingo! Wake up, Dingo!

Do you see that gentleman dancing on an ashpit? He wants to be popular

and very truly run after. Dingo, make him SO!’



Up jumped Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--and said, ‘What, that cat-rabbit?’



Off ran Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--always hungry, grinning like a

coal-scuttle,--ran after Kangaroo.



Off went the proud Kangaroo on his four little legs like a bunny.



This, O Beloved of mine, ends the first part of the tale!



He ran through the desert; he ran through the mountains; he ran through

the salt-pans; he ran through the reed-beds; he ran through the blue

gums; he ran through the spinifex; he ran till his front legs ached.



He had to!



Still ran Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--always hungry, grinning like a

rat-trap, never getting nearer, never getting farther,--ran after

Kangaroo.



He had to!



Still ran Kangaroo--Old Man Kangaroo. He ran through the ti-trees; he

ran through the mulga; he ran through the long grass; he ran through the

short grass; he ran through the Tropics of Capricorn and Cancer; he ran

till his hind legs ached.



He had to!



Still ran Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--hungrier and hungrier, grinning like

a horse-collar, never getting nearer, never getting farther; and they

came to the Wollgong River.



Now, there wasn’t any bridge, and there wasn’t any ferry-boat, and

Kangaroo didn’t know how to get over; so he stood on his legs and

hopped.



He had to!



He hopped through the Flinders; he hopped through the Cinders; he

hopped through the deserts in the middle of Australia. He hopped like a

Kangaroo.



First he hopped one yard; then he hopped three yards; then he hopped

five yards; his legs growing stronger; his legs growing longer. He

hadn’t any time for rest or refreshment, and he wanted them very much.



Still ran Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo--very much bewildered, very much

hungry, and wondering what in the world or out of it made Old Man

Kangaroo hop.



For he hopped like a cricket; like a pea in a saucepan; or a new rubber

ball on a nursery floor.



He had to!



He tucked up his front legs; he hopped on his hind legs; he stuck out

his tail for a balance-weight behind him; and he hopped through the

Darling Downs.



He had to!



Still ran Dingo--Tired-Dog Dingo--hungrier and hungrier, very much

bewildered, and wondering when in the world or out of it would Old Man

Kangaroo stop.



Then came Nqong from his bath in the salt-pans, and said, ‘It’s five

o’clock.’



Down sat Dingo--Poor Dog Dingo--always hungry, dusky in the sunshine;

hung out his tongue and howled.



Down sat Kangaroo--Old Man Kangaroo--stuck out his tail like a

milking-stool behind him, and said, ‘Thank goodness that’s finished!’



Then said Nqong, who is always a gentleman, ‘Why aren’t you grateful to

Yellow-Dog Dingo? Why don’t you thank him for all he has done for you?’



Then said Kangaroo--Tired Old Kangaroo--He’s chased me out of the homes

of my childhood; he’s chased me out of my regular meal-times; he’s

altered my shape so I’ll never get it back; and he’s played Old Scratch

with my legs.’



Then said Nqong, ‘Perhaps I’m mistaken, but didn’t you ask me to make

you different from all other animals, as well as to make you very truly

sought after? And now it is five o’clock.’



‘Yes,’ said Kangaroo. ‘I wish that I hadn’t. I thought you would do it

by charms and incantations, but this is a practical joke.’



‘Joke!’ said Nqong from his bath in the blue gums. ‘Say that again and

I’ll whistle up Dingo and run your hind legs off.’



‘No,’ said the Kangaroo. ‘I must apologise. Legs are legs, and you

needn’t alter ‘em so far as I am concerned. I only meant to explain to

Your Lordliness that I’ve had nothing to eat since morning, and I’m very

empty indeed.’



‘Yes,’ said Dingo--Yellow-Dog Dingo,--‘I am just in the same situation.

I’ve made him different from all other animals; but what may I have for

my tea?’



Then said Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan, ‘Come and ask me about it

tomorrow, because I’m going to wash.’



So they were left in the middle of Australia, Old Man Kangaroo and

Yellow-Dog Dingo, and each said, ‘That’s your fault.’





     THIS is the mouth-filling song

     Of the race that was run by a Boomer,

     Run in a single burst--only event of its kind--

     Started by big God Nqong from Warrigaborrigarooma,

     Old Man Kangaroo first: Yellow-Dog Dingo behind.



     Kangaroo bounded away,

     His back-legs working like pistons--

     Bounded from morning till dark,

     Twenty-five feet to a bound.

     Yellow-Dog Dingo lay

     Like a yellow cloud in the distance--

     Much too busy to bark.

     My! but they covered the ground!



     Nobody knows where they went,

     Or followed the track that they flew in,

     For that Continent

     Hadn’t been given a name.

     They ran thirty degrees,

     From Torres Straits to the Leeuwin

     (Look at the Atlas, please),

     And they ran back as they came.



     S’posing you could trot

     From Adelaide to the Pacific,

     For an afternoon’s run

     Half what these gentlemen did

     You would feel rather hot,

     But your legs would develop terrific--

     Yes, my importunate son,

     You’d be a Marvellous Kid!









THE BEGINNING OF THE ARMADILLOS



THIS, O Best Beloved, is another story of the High and Far-Off Times.

In the very middle of those times was a Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog, and

he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon, eating shelly snails and

things. And he had a friend, a Slow-Solid Tortoise, who lived on the

banks of the turbid Amazon, eating green lettuces and things. And so

that was all right, Best Beloved. Do you see?



But also, and at the same time, in those High and Far-Off Times, there

was a Painted Jaguar, and he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon

too; and he ate everything that he could catch. When he could not catch

deer or monkeys he would eat frogs and beetles; and when he could not

catch frogs and beetles he went to his Mother Jaguar, and she told him

how to eat hedgehogs and tortoises.



She said to him ever so many times, graciously waving her tail, ‘My son,

when you find a Hedgehog you must drop him into the water and then he

will uncoil, and when you catch a Tortoise you must scoop him out of his

shell with your paw.’ And so that was all right, Best Beloved.



One beautiful night on the banks of the turbid Amazon, Painted Jaguar

found Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog and Slow-Solid Tortoise sitting under the

trunk of a fallen tree. They could not run away, and so Stickly-Prickly

curled himself up into a ball, because he was a Hedgehog, and Slow-Solid

Tortoise drew in his head and feet into his shell as far as they would

go, because he was a Tortoise; and so that was all right, Best Beloved.

Do you see?



‘Now attend to me,’ said Painted Jaguar, ‘because this is very

important. My mother said that when I meet a Hedgehog I am to drop him

into the water and then he will uncoil, and when I meet a Tortoise I am

to scoop him out of his shell with my paw. Now which of you is Hedgehog

and which is Tortoise? because, to save my spots, I can’t tell.’



‘Are you sure of what your Mummy told you?’ said Stickly-Prickly

Hedgehog. ‘Are you quite sure? Perhaps she said that when you uncoil a

Tortoise you must shell him out the water with a scoop, and when you paw

a Hedgehog you must drop him on the shell.’



‘Are you sure of what your Mummy told you?’ said Slow-and-Solid

Tortoise. ‘Are you quite sure? Perhaps she said that when you water a

Hedgehog you must drop him into your paw, and when you meet a Tortoise

you must shell him till he uncoils.’



‘I don’t think it was at all like that,’ said Painted Jaguar, but he

felt a little puzzled; ‘but, please, say it again more distinctly.’



‘When you scoop water with your paw you uncoil it with a Hedgehog,’ said

Stickly-Prickly. ‘Remember that, because it’s important.’



‘But,’ said the Tortoise, ‘when you paw your meat you drop it into a

Tortoise with a scoop. Why can’t you understand?’



‘You are making my spots ache,’ said Painted Jaguar; ‘and besides, I

didn’t want your advice at all. I only wanted to know which of you is

Hedgehog and which is Tortoise.’



‘I shan’t tell you,’ said Stickly-Prickly, ‘but you can scoop me out of

my shell if you like.’


