‘That’s made a-purpose,’ said the Djinn, ‘all because you missed those

three days. You will be able to work now for three days without eating,

because you can live on your humph; and don’t you ever say I never

did anything for you. Come out of the Desert and go to the Three, and

behave. Humph yourself!’



And the Camel humphed himself, humph and all, and went away to join the

Three. And from that day to this the Camel always wears a humph (we call

it ‘hump’ now, not to hurt his feelings); but he has never yet caught up

with the three days that he missed at the beginning of the world, and he

has never yet learned how to behave.





     THE Camel’s hump is an ugly lump

       Which well you may see at the Zoo;

     But uglier yet is the hump we get

       From having too little to do.



     Kiddies and grown-ups too-oo-oo,

     If we haven’t enough to do-oo-oo,

         We get the hump--

         Cameelious hump--

     The hump that is black and blue!



     We climb out of bed with a frouzly head

       And a snarly-yarly voice.

     We shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl

       At our bath and our boots and our toys;



     And there ought to be a corner for me

     (And I know there is one for you)

         When we get the hump--

         Cameelious hump--

     The hump that is black and blue!



     The cure for this ill is not to sit still,

       Or frowst with a book by the fire;

     But to take a large hoe and a shovel also,

       And dig till you gently perspire;



     And then you will find that the sun and the wind.

     And the Djinn of the Garden too,

         Have lifted the hump--

         The horrible hump--

     The hump that is black and blue!



     I get it as well as you-oo-oo--

     If I haven’t enough to do-oo-oo--

         We all get hump--

         Cameelious hump--

     Kiddies and grown-ups too!









HOW THE RHINOCEROS GOT HIS SKIN



ONCE upon a time, on an uninhabited island on the shores of the Red Sea,

there lived a Parsee from whose hat the rays of the sun were reflected

in more-than-oriental splendour. And the Parsee lived by the Red Sea

with nothing but his hat and his knife and a cooking-stove of the kind

that you must particularly never touch. And one day he took flour and

water and currants and plums and sugar and things, and made himself one

cake which was two feet across and three feet thick. It was indeed a

Superior Comestible (that’s magic), and he put it on stove because he

was allowed to cook on the stove, and he baked it and he baked it till

it was all done brown and smelt most sentimental. But just as he

was going to eat it there came down to the beach from the Altogether

Uninhabited Interior one Rhinoceros with a horn on his nose, two piggy

eyes, and few manners. In those days the Rhinoceros’s skin fitted him

quite tight. There were no wrinkles in it anywhere. He looked exactly

like a Noah’s Ark Rhinoceros, but of course much bigger. All the same,

he had no manners then, and he has no manners now, and he never will

have any manners. He said, ‘How!’ and the Parsee left that cake and

climbed to the top of a palm tree with nothing on but his hat, from

which the rays of the sun were always reflected in more-than-oriental

splendour. And the Rhinoceros upset the oil-stove with his nose, and

the cake rolled on the sand, and he spiked that cake on the horn of his

nose, and he ate it, and he went away, waving his tail, to the desolate

and Exclusively Uninhabited Interior which abuts on the islands of

Mazanderan, Socotra, and Promontories of the Larger Equinox. Then the

Parsee came down from his palm-tree and put the stove on its legs and

recited the following Sloka, which, as you have not heard, I will now

proceed to relate:--



  Them that takes cakes

  Which the Parsee-man bakes

  Makes dreadful mistakes.



And there was a great deal more in that than you would think.



Because, five weeks later, there was a heat wave in the Red Sea, and

everybody took off all the clothes they had. The Parsee took off his

hat; but the Rhinoceros took off his skin and carried it over his

shoulder as he came down to the beach to bathe. In those days it

buttoned underneath with three buttons and looked like a waterproof. He

said nothing whatever about the Parsee’s cake, because he had eaten

it all; and he never had any manners, then, since, or henceforward.

He waddled straight into the water and blew bubbles through his nose,

leaving his skin on the beach.



Presently the Parsee came by and found the skin, and he smiled one smile

that ran all round his face two times. Then he danced three times round

the skin and rubbed his hands. Then he went to his camp and filled his

hat with cake-crumbs, for the Parsee never ate anything but cake, and

never swept out his camp. He took that skin, and he shook that skin, and

he scrubbed that skin, and he rubbed that skin just as full of old,

dry, stale, tickly cake-crumbs and some burned currants as ever it could

possibly hold. Then he climbed to the top of his palm-tree and waited

for the Rhinoceros to come out of the water and put it on.



And the Rhinoceros did. He buttoned it up with the three buttons, and

it tickled like cake crumbs in bed. Then he wanted to scratch, but that

made it worse; and then he lay down on the sands and rolled and rolled

and rolled, and every time he rolled the cake crumbs tickled him worse

and worse and worse. Then he ran to the palm-tree and rubbed and rubbed

and rubbed himself against it. He rubbed so much and so hard that he

rubbed his skin into a great fold over his shoulders, and another fold

underneath, where the buttons used to be (but he rubbed the buttons

off), and he rubbed some more folds over his legs. And it spoiled his

temper, but it didn’t make the least difference to the cake-crumbs.

They were inside his skin and they tickled. So he went home, very angry

indeed and horribly scratchy; and from that day to this every rhinoceros

has great folds in his skin and a very bad temper, all on account of the

cake-crumbs inside.



But the Parsee came down from his palm-tree, wearing his hat, from which

the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour,

packed up his cooking-stove, and went away in the direction of Orotavo,

Amygdala, the Upland Meadows of Anantarivo, and the Marshes of Sonaput.





     THIS Uninhabited Island

       Is off Cape Gardafui,

     By the Beaches of Socotra

       And the Pink Arabian Sea:

     But it’s hot--too hot from Suez

       For the likes of you and me

         Ever to go

         In a P. and O.

     And call on the Cake-Parsee!









HOW THE LEOPARD GOT HIS SPOTS



IN the days when everybody started fair, Best Beloved, the Leopard lived

in a place called the High Veldt. ‘Member it wasn’t the Low Veldt, or

the Bush Veldt, or the Sour Veldt, but the ‘sclusively bare, hot, shiny

High Veldt, where there was sand and sandy-coloured rock and ‘sclusively

tufts of sandy-yellowish grass. The Giraffe and the Zebra and the Eland

and the Koodoo and the Hartebeest lived there; and they were ‘sclusively

sandy-yellow-brownish all over; but the Leopard, he was the ‘sclusivest

sandiest-yellowish-brownest of them all--a greyish-yellowish

catty-shaped kind of beast, and he matched the ‘sclusively

yellowish-greyish-brownish colour of the High Veldt to one hair. This

was very bad for the Giraffe and the Zebra and the rest of them; for

he would lie down by a ‘sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish stone or

clump of grass, and when the Giraffe or the Zebra or the Eland or the

Koodoo or the Bush-Buck or the Bonte-Buck came by he would surprise them

out of their jumpsome lives. He would indeed! And, also, there was an

Ethiopian with bows and arrows (a ‘sclusively greyish-brownish-yellowish

man he was then), who lived on the High Veldt with the Leopard; and the

two used to hunt together--the Ethiopian with his bows and arrows, and

the Leopard ‘sclusively with his teeth and claws--till the Giraffe and

the Eland and the Koodoo and the Quagga and all the rest of them didn’t

know which way to jump, Best Beloved. They didn’t indeed!



After a long time--things lived for ever so long in those days--they

learned to avoid anything that looked like a Leopard or an Ethiopian;

and bit by bit--the Giraffe began it, because his legs were the

longest--they went away from the High Veldt. They scuttled for days

and days and days till they came to a great forest, ‘sclusively full of

trees and bushes and stripy, speckly, patchy-blatchy shadows, and there

they hid: and after another long time, what with standing half in the

shade and half out of it, and what with the slippery-slidy shadows of

the trees falling on them, the Giraffe grew blotchy, and the Zebra grew

stripy, and the Eland and the Koodoo grew darker, with little wavy grey

lines on their backs like bark on a tree trunk; and so, though you could

hear them and smell them, you could very seldom see them, and then only

when you knew precisely where to look. They had a beautiful time in the

‘sclusively speckly-spickly shadows of the forest, while the Leopard and

the Ethiopian ran about over the ‘sclusively greyish-yellowish-reddish

High Veldt outside, wondering where all their breakfasts and their

dinners and their teas had gone. At last they were so hungry that they

ate rats and beetles and rock-rabbits, the Leopard and the Ethiopian,

and then they had the Big Tummy-ache, both together; and then they met

Baviaan--the dog-headed, barking Baboon, who is Quite the Wisest Animal

in All South Africa.



Said Leopard to Baviaan (and it was a very hot day), ‘Where has all the

game gone?’



And Baviaan winked. He knew.



Said the Ethiopian to Baviaan, ‘Can you tell me the present habitat

of the aboriginal Fauna?’ (That meant just the same thing, but the

Ethiopian always used long words. He was a grown-up.)



And Baviaan winked. He knew.



Then said Baviaan, ‘The game has gone into other spots; and my advice to

you, Leopard, is to go into other spots as soon as you can.’



And the Ethiopian said, ‘That is all very fine, but I wish to know

whither the aboriginal Fauna has migrated.’



Then said Baviaan, ‘The aboriginal Fauna has joined the aboriginal Flora

because it was high time for a change; and my advice to you, Ethiopian,

is to change as soon as you can.’



That puzzled the Leopard and the Ethiopian, but they set off to look for

the aboriginal Flora, and presently, after ever so many days, they saw

a great, high, tall forest full of tree trunks all ‘sclusively speckled

and sprottled and spottled, dotted and splashed and slashed and hatched

and cross-hatched with shadows. (Say that quickly aloud, and you will

see how very shadowy the forest must have been.)



‘What is this,’ said the Leopard, ‘that is so ‘sclusively dark, and yet

so full of little pieces of light?’



‘I don’t know, said the Ethiopian, ‘but it ought to be the aboriginal

Flora. I can smell Giraffe, and I can hear Giraffe, but I can’t see

Giraffe.’



‘That’s curious,’ said the Leopard. ‘I suppose it is because we have

just come in out of the sunshine. I can smell Zebra, and I can hear

Zebra, but I can’t see Zebra.’



‘Wait a bit, said the Ethiopian. ‘It’s a long time since we’ve hunted

‘em. Perhaps we’ve forgotten what they were like.’



‘Fiddle!’ said the Leopard. ‘I remember them perfectly on the High

Veldt, especially their marrow-bones. Giraffe is about seventeen feet

high, of a ‘sclusively fulvous golden-yellow from head to heel; and

Zebra is about four and a half feet high, of a’sclusively grey-fawn

colour from head to heel.’



‘Umm, said the Ethiopian, looking into the speckly-spickly shadows of

the aboriginal Flora-forest. ‘Then they ought to show up in this dark

place like ripe bananas in a smokehouse.’



But they didn’t. The Leopard and the Ethiopian hunted all day; and

though they could smell them and hear them, they never saw one of them.



‘For goodness’ sake,’ said the Leopard at tea-time, ‘let us wait till it

gets dark. This daylight hunting is a perfect scandal.’



So they waited till dark, and then the Leopard heard something breathing

sniffily in the starlight that fell all stripy through the branches, and

he jumped at the noise, and it smelt like Zebra, and it felt like Zebra,

and when he knocked it down it kicked like Zebra, but he couldn’t see

it. So he said, ‘Be quiet, O you person without any form. I am going to

sit on your head till morning, because there is something about you that

I don’t understand.’



Presently he heard a grunt and a crash and a scramble, and the Ethiopian

called out, ‘I’ve caught a thing that I can’t see. It smells like

Giraffe, and it kicks like Giraffe, but it hasn’t any form.’



‘Don’t you trust it,’ said the Leopard. ‘Sit on its head till the

morning--same as me. They haven’t any form--any of ‘em.’



So they sat down on them hard till bright morning-time, and then Leopard

said, ‘What have you at your end of the table, Brother?’



The Ethiopian scratched his head and said, ‘It ought to be ‘sclusively a

rich fulvous orange-tawny from head to heel, and it ought to be Giraffe;

but it is covered all over with chestnut blotches. What have you at your

end of the table, Brother?’


