So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the jungle from

that day on. But he was not always alone, because, years afterward, he

became a man and married.



But that is a story for grown-ups.









Mowgli’s Song



     THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE

     DANCED ON SHERE KHAN’S HIDE



     The Song of Mowgli--I, Mowgli, am singing.  Let the jungle

        listen to the things I have done.



     Shere Khan said he would kill--would kill!  At the gates in the

        twilight he would kill Mowgli, the Frog!



     He ate and he drank.  Drink deep, Shere Khan, for when wilt thou

        drink again?  Sleep and dream of the kill.



     I am alone on the grazing-grounds.  Gray Brother, come to me!

        Come to me, Lone Wolf, for there is big game afoot!



     Bring up the great bull buffaloes, the blue-skinned herd bulls

        with the angry eyes.  Drive them to and fro as I order.



     Sleepest thou still, Shere Khan?  Wake, oh, wake!  Here come I,

        and the bulls are behind.



     Rama, the King of the Buffaloes, stamped with his foot.  Waters of

        the Waingunga, whither went Shere Khan?



     He is not Ikki to dig holes, nor Mao, the Peacock, that he should

        fly.  He is not Mang the Bat, to hang in the branches.  Little

        bamboos that creak together, tell me where he ran?



     Ow!  He is there.  Ahoo!  He is there.  Under the feet of Rama

        lies the Lame One!  Up, Shere Khan!



     Up and kill!  Here is meat; break the necks of the bulls!



     Hsh!  He is asleep.  We will not wake him, for his strength is

        very great.  The kites have come down to see it.  The black

        ants have come up to know it.  There is a great assembly in his

        honor.



     Alala!  I have no cloth to wrap me.  The kites will see that I am

        naked.  I am ashamed to meet all these people.



     Lend me thy coat, Shere Khan.  Lend me thy gay striped coat that I

        may go to the Council Rock.



     By the Bull that bought me I made a promise--a little promise.

        Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word.



     With the knife, with the knife that men use, with the knife of the

        hunter, I will stoop down for my gift.



     Waters of the Waingunga, Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love

        that he bears me.  Pull, Gray Brother!  Pull, Akela!  Heavy is

        the hide of Shere Khan.



     The Man Pack are angry.  They throw stones and talk child’s talk.

        My mouth is bleeding.  Let me run away.



     Through the night, through the hot night, run swiftly with me, my

        brothers.  We will leave the lights of the village and go to

        the low moon.



     Waters of the Waingunga, the Man-Pack have cast me out.  I did

        them no harm, but they were afraid of me.  Why?



     Wolf Pack, ye have cast me out too.  The jungle is shut to me and

        the village gates are shut.  Why?



     As Mang flies between the beasts and birds, so fly I between the

        village and the jungle.  Why?



     I dance on the hide of Shere Khan, but my heart is very heavy.  My

        mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village, but

        my heart is very light, because I have come back to the jungle.

        Why?



     These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the

        spring.  The water comes out of my eyes; yet I laugh while it

        falls.  Why?



     I am two Mowglis, but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet.



     All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan.  Look--look

        well, O Wolves!



     Ahae!  My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand.









The White Seal



     Oh! hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us,

        And black are the waters that sparkled so green.

     The moon, o’er the combers, looks downward to find us

        At rest in the hollows that rustle between.

     Where billow meets billow, then soft be thy pillow,

        Ah, weary wee flipperling, curl at thy ease!

     The storm shall not wake thee, nor shark overtake thee,

        Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas!



                                              Seal Lullaby





All these things happened several years ago at a place called

Novastoshnah, or North East Point, on the Island of St. Paul, away and

away in the Bering Sea. Limmershin, the Winter Wren, told me the tale

when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to Japan, and I

took him down into my cabin and warmed and fed him for a couple of days

till he was fit to fly back to St. Paul’s again. Limmershin is a very

quaint little bird, but he knows how to tell the truth.



Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business, and the only people

who have regular business there are the seals. They come in the summer

months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of the cold gray sea.

For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any

place in all the world.



Sea Catch knew that, and every spring would swim from whatever place

he happened to be in--would swim like a torpedo-boat straight for

Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his companions for a good

place on the rocks, as close to the sea as possible. Sea Catch was

fifteen years old, a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his

shoulders, and long, wicked dog teeth. When he heaved himself up on his

front flippers he stood more than four feet clear of the ground, and his

weight, if anyone had been bold enough to weigh him, was nearly seven

hundred pounds. He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights,

but he was always ready for just one fight more. He would put his head

on one side, as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face;

then he would shoot it out like lightning, and when the big teeth were

firmly fixed on the other seal’s neck, the other seal might get away if

he could, but Sea Catch would not help him.



Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal, for that was against the Rules

of the Beach. He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery. But as

there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same

thing each spring, the whistling, bellowing, roaring, and blowing on the

beach was something frightful.



From a little hill called Hutchinson’s Hill, you could look over three

and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals; and the surf was

dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their

share of the fighting. They fought in the breakers, they fought in the

sand, and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries,

for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men. Their wives

never came to the island until late in May or early in June, for they

did not care to be torn to pieces; and the young two-, three-, and

four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about

half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the

sand dunes in droves and legions, and rubbed off every single green

thing that grew. They were called the holluschickie--the bachelors--and

there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah

alone.



Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when

Matkah, his soft, sleek, gentle-eyed wife, came up out of the sea,

and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his

reservation, saying gruffly: “Late as usual. Where have you been?”



It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four

months he stayed on the beaches, and so his temper was generally bad.

Matkah knew better than to answer back. She looked round and cooed: “How

thoughtful of you. You’ve taken the old place again.”



“I should think I had,” said Sea Catch. “Look at me!”



He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places; one eye was almost out,

and his sides were torn to ribbons.



“Oh, you men, you men!” Matkah said, fanning herself with her hind

flipper. “Why can’t you be sensible and settle your places quietly? You

look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale.”



“I haven’t been doing anything but fight since the middle of May. The

beach is disgracefully crowded this season. I’ve met at least a hundred

seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting. Why can’t people stay where

they belong?”



“I’ve often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter

Island instead of this crowded place,” said Matkah.



“Bah! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island. If we went there they

would say we were afraid. We must preserve appearances, my dear.”



Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended

to go to sleep for a few minutes, but all the time he was keeping a

sharp lookout for a fight. Now that all the seals and their wives were

on the land, you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the

loudest gales. At the lowest counting there were over a million seals

on the beach--old seals, mother seals, tiny babies, and holluschickie,

fighting, scuffling, bleating, crawling, and playing together--going

down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments, lying

over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach, and skirmishing

about in brigades through the fog. It is nearly always foggy at

Novastoshnah, except when the sun comes out and makes everything look

all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while.



Kotick, Matkah’s baby, was born in the middle of that confusion, and he

was all head and shoulders, with pale, watery blue eyes, as tiny seals

must be, but there was something about his coat that made his mother

look at him very closely.



“Sea Catch,” she said, at last, “our baby’s going to be white!”



“Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!” snorted Sea Catch. “There never has

been such a thing in the world as a white seal.”



“I can’t help that,” said Matkah; “there’s going to be now.” And she

sang the low, crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their

babies:



     You mustn’t swim till you’re six weeks old,

        Or your head will be sunk by your heels;

     And summer gales and Killer Whales

        Are bad for baby seals.



     Are bad for baby seals, dear rat,

        As bad as bad can be;

     But splash and grow strong,

     And you can’t be wrong.

        Child of the Open Sea!



Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first. He

paddled and scrambled about by his mother’s side, and learned to scuffle

out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal, and the

two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks. Matkah used to go

to sea to get things to eat, and the baby was fed only once in two days,

but then he ate all he could and throve upon it.



The first thing he did was to crawl inland, and there he met tens

of thousands of babies of his own age, and they played together like

puppies, went to sleep on the clean sand, and played again. The old

people in the nurseries took no notice of them, and the holluschickie

kept to their own grounds, and the babies had a beautiful playtime.



When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight

to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb, and wait until

she heard Kotick bleat. Then she would take the straightest of straight

lines in his direction, striking out with her fore flippers and knocking

the youngsters head over heels right and left. There were always a few

hundred mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds, and

the babies were kept lively. But, as Matkah told Kotick, “So long as you

don’t lie in muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard sand into a cut

or scratch, and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy

sea, nothing will hurt you here.”



Little seals can no more swim than little children, but they are unhappy

till they learn. The first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave

carried him out beyond his depth, and his big head sank and his little

hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the song,

and if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have

drowned.



After that, he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the

waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled, but he always

kept his eye open for big waves that might hurt. He was two weeks

learning to use his flippers; and all that while he floundered in and

out of the water, and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and

took catnaps on the sand, and went back again, until at last he found

that he truly belonged to the water.


