'His country--his race--his village?  Mussalman--Sikh Hindu--Jain--low

caste or high?'



'Why should I ask?  There is neither high nor low in the Middle Way.

If he is my chela--does--will--can anyone take him from me?  for, look

you, without him I shall not find my River.'  He wagged his head

solemnly.



'None shall take him from thee.  Go, sit among my Baltis,' said Mahbub

Ali, and the lama drifted off, soothed by the promise.



'Is he not quite mad?'  said Kim, coming forward to the light again.

'Why should I lie to thee, Hajji?'



Mahbub puffed his hookah in silence.  Then he began, almost whispering:

'Umballa is on the road to Benares--if indeed ye two go there.'



'Tck!  Tck!  I tell thee he does not know how to lie--as we two know.'



'And if thou wilt carry a message for me as far as Umballa, I will give

thee money.  It concerns a horse--a white stallion which I have sold to

an officer upon the last time I returned from the Passes.  But

then--stand nearer and hold up hands as begging--the pedigree of the

white stallion was not fully established, and that officer, who is now

at Umballa, bade me make it clear.'  (Mahbub here described the horse

and the appearance of the officer.) 'So the message to that officer

will be:  "The pedigree of the white stallion is fully established."

By this will he know that thou comest from me.  He will then say "What

proof hast thou?"  and thou wilt answer:  "Mahbub Ali has given me the

proof."'



'And all for the sake of a white stallion,' said Kim, with a giggle,

his eyes aflame.



'That pedigree I will give thee now--in my own fashion and some hard

words as well.'  A shadow passed behind Kim, and a feeding camel.

Mahbub Ali raised his voice.



'Allah!  Art thou the only beggar in the city?  Thy mother is dead. Thy

father is dead.  So is it with all of them.  Well, well--'



He turned as feeling on the floor beside him and tossed a flap of soft,

greasy Mussalman bread to the boy.  'Go and lie down among my horseboys

for tonight--thou and the lama.  Tomorrow I may give thee service.'



Kim slunk away, his teeth in the bread, and, as he expected, he found a

small wad of folded tissue-paper wrapped in oilskin, with three silver

rupees--enormous largesse.  He smiled and thrust money and paper into

his leather amulet-case.  The lama, sumptuously fed by Mahbub's Baltis,

was already asleep in a corner of one of the stalls.  Kim lay down

beside him and laughed. He knew he had rendered a service to Mahbub

Ali, and not for one little minute did he believe the tale of the

stallion's pedigree.



But Kim did not suspect that Mahbub Ali, known as one of the best

horse-dealers in the Punjab, a wealthy and enterprising trader, whose

caravans penetrated far and far into the Back of Beyond, was registered

in one of the locked books of the Indian Survey Department as C25 IB.

Twice or thrice yearly C25 would send in a little story, baldly told

but most interesting, and generally--it was checked by the statements

of R17 and M4--quite true.  It concerned all manner of out-of-the-way

mountain principalities, explorers of nationalities other than English,

and the guntrade--was, in brief, a small portion of that vast mass of

'information received' on which the Indian Government acts.  But,

recently, five confederated Kings, who had no business to confederate,

had been informed by a kindly Northern Power that there was a leakage

of news from their territories into British India.  So those Kings'

Prime Ministers were seriously annoyed and took steps, after the

Oriental fashion.  They suspected, among many others, the bullying,

red-bearded horsedealer whose caravans ploughed through their

fastnesses belly-deep in snow.  At least, his caravan that season had

been ambushed and shot at twice on the way down, when Mahbub's men

accounted for three strange ruffians who might, or might not, have been

hired for the job.  Therefore Mahbub had avoided halting at the

insalubrious city of Peshawur, and had come through without stop to

Lahore, where, knowing his country-people, he anticipated curious

developments.



And there was that on Mahbub Ali which he did not wish to keep an hour

longer than was necessary--a wad of closely folded tissue-paper,

wrapped in oilskin--an impersonal, unaddressed statement, with five

microscopic pin-holes in one corner, that most scandalously betrayed

the five confederated Kings, the sympathetic Northern Power, a Hindu

banker in Peshawur, a firm of gun-makers in Belgium, and an important,

semi-independent Mohammedan ruler to the south.  This last was R17's

work, which Mahbub had picked up beyond the Dora Pass and was carrying

in for R17, who, owing to circumstances over which he had no control,

could not leave his post of observation.  Dynamite was milky and

innocuous beside that report of C25; and even an Oriental, with an

Oriental's views of the value of time, could see that the sooner it was

in the proper hands the better.  Mahbub had no particular desire to die

by violence, because two or three family blood-feuds across the Border

hung unfinished on his hands, and when these scores were cleared he

intended to settle down as a more or less virtuous citizen.  He had

never passed the serai gate since his arrival two days ago, but had

been ostentatious in sending telegrams to Bombay, where he banked some

of his money; to Delhi, where a sub-partner of his own clan was selling

horses to the agent of a Rajputana state; and to Umballa, where an

Englishman was excitedly demanding the pedigree of a white stallion.

The public letter-writer, who knew English, composed excellent

telegrams, such as:  'Creighton, Laurel Bank, Umballa. Horse is Arabian

as already advised.  Sorrowful delayed pedigree which am translating.'

And later to the same address:  'Much sorrowful delay.  Will forward

pedigree.'  To his sub-partner at Delhi he wired:  'Lutuf Ullah.  Have

wired two thousand rupees your credit Luchman Narain's bank--' This was

entirely in the way of trade, but every one of those telegrams was

discussed and rediscussed, by parties who conceived themselves to be

interested, before they went over to the railway station in charge of a

foolish Balti, who allowed all sorts of people to read them on the road.



When, in Mahbub's own picturesque language, he had muddied the wells of

inquiry with the stick of precaution, Kim had dropped on him, sent from

Heaven; and, being as prompt as he was unscrupulous, Mahbub Ali used to

taking all sorts of gusty chances, pressed him into service on the spot.



A wandering lama with a low-caste boy-servant might attract a moment's

interest as they wandered about India, the land of pilgrims; but no one

would suspect them or, what was more to the point, rob.



He called for a new light-ball to his hookah, and considered the case.

If the worst came to the worst, and the boy came to harm, the paper

would incriminate nobody.  And he would go up to Umballa leisurely

and--at a certain risk of exciting fresh suspicion--repeat his tale by

word of mouth to the people concerned.



But R17's report was the kernel of the whole affair, and it would be

distinctly inconvenient if that failed to come to hand. However, God

was great, and Mahbub Ali felt he had done all he could for the time

being.  Kim was the one soul in the world who had never told him a lie.

That would have been a fatal blot on Kim's character if Mahbub had not

known that to others, for his own ends or Mahbub's business, Kim could

lie like an Oriental.



Then Mahbub Ali rolled across the serai to the Gate of the Harpies who

paint their eyes and trap the stranger, and was at some pains to call

on the one girl who, he had reason to believe, was a particular friend

of a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit who had waylaid his simple Balti in

the matter of the telegrams.  It was an utterly foolish thing to do;

because they fell to drinking perfumed brandy against the Law of the

Prophet, and Mahbub grew wonderfully drunk, and the gates of his mouth

were loosened, and he pursued the Flower of Delight with the feet of

intoxication till he fell flat among the cushions, where the Flower of

Delight, aided by a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit, searched him from

head to foot most thoroughly.



About the same hour Kim heard soft feet in Mahbub's deserted stall.

The horse-trader, curiously enough, had left his door unlocked, and his

men were busy celebrating their return to India with a whole sheep of

Mahbub's bounty.  A sleek young gentleman from Delhi, armed with a

bunch of keys which the Flower had unshackled from the senseless one's

belt, went through every single box, bundle, mat, and saddle-bag in

Mahbub's possession even more systematically than the Flower and the

pundit were searching the owner.



'And I think.'  said the Flower scornfully an hour later, one rounded

elbow on the snoring carcass, 'that he is no more than a pig of an

Afghan horse-dealer, with no thought except women and horses.

Moreover, he may have sent it away by now--if ever there were such a

thing.'



'Nay--in a matter touching Five Kings it would be next his black

heart,' said the pundit.  'Was there nothing?'



The Delhi man laughed and resettled his turban as he entered.  'I

searched between the soles of his slippers as the Flower searched his

clothes.  This is not the man but another.  I leave little unseen.'



'They did not say he was the very man,' said the pundit thoughtfully.

'They said, "Look if he be the man, since our counsels are troubled."'



'That North country is full of horse-dealers as an old coat of lice.

There is Sikandar Khan, Nur Ali Beg, and Farrukh Shah all heads of

kafilas [caravans]--who deal there,' said the Flower.



'They have not yet come in,' said the pundit.  'Thou must ensnare them

later.'



Phew!'  said the Flower with deep disgust, rolling Mahbub's head from

her lap.  'I earn my money.  Farrukh Shah is a bear, Ali Beg a

swashbuckler, and old Sikandar Khan--yaie!  Go!  I sleep now.  This

swine will not stir till dawn.'



When Mahbub woke, the Flower talked to him severely on the sin of

drunkenness.  Asiatics do not wink when they have outmanoeuvred an

enemy, but as Mahbub Ali cleared his throat, tightened his belt, and

staggered forth under the early morning stars, he came very near to it.



'What a colt's trick!'  said he to himself.  'As if every girl in

Peshawur did not use it!  But 'twas prettily done.  Now God He knows

how many more there be upon the Road who have orders to test

me--perhaps with the knife.  So it stands that the boy must go to

Umballa--and by rail--for the writing is something urgent.  I abide

here, following the Flower and drinking wine as an Afghan coper should.'


