ONCE upon a most early time was a Neolithic man. He was not a Jute or an

Angle, or even a Dravidian, which he might well have been, Best Beloved,

but never mind why. He was a Primitive, and he lived cavily in a Cave,

and he wore very few clothes, and he couldn’t read and he couldn’t write

and he didn’t want to, and except when he was hungry he was

quite happy. His name was Tegumai Bopsulai, and that means,

‘Man-who-does-not-put-his-foot-forward-in-a-hurry’; but we, O Best

Beloved, will call him Tegumai, for short. And his wife’s name

was Teshumai Tewindrow, and that means,

‘Lady-who-asks-a-very-many-questions’; but we, O Best Beloved, will

call her Teshumai, for short. And his little girl-daughter’s name

was Taffimai Metallumai, and that means,

‘Small-person-without-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked’; but I’m

going to call her Taffy. And she was Tegumai Bopsulai’s Best Beloved and

her own Mummy’s Best Beloved, and she was not spanked half as much as

was good for her; and they were all three very happy. As soon as

Taffy could run about she went everywhere with her Daddy Tegumai, and

sometimes they would not come home to the Cave till they were hungry,

and then Teshumai Tewindrow would say, ‘Where in the world have you two

been to, to get so shocking dirty? Really, my Tegumai, you’re no better

than my Taffy.’



Now attend and listen!



One day Tegumai Bopsulai went down through the beaver-swamp to the Wagai

river to spear carp-fish for dinner, and Taffy went too. Tegumai’s spear

was made of wood with shark’s teeth at the end, and before he had caught

any fish at all he accidentally broke it clean across by jabbing it down

too hard on the bottom of the river. They were miles and miles from home

(of course they had their lunch with them in a little bag), and Tegumai

had forgotten to bring any extra spears.



‘Here’s a pretty kettle of fish!’ said Tegumai. ‘It will take me half

the day to mend this.’



‘There’s your big black spear at home,’ said Taffy. ‘Let me run back to

the Cave and ask Mummy to give it me.’



‘It’s too far for your little fat legs,’ said Tegumai. ‘Besides, you

might fall into the beaver-swamp and be drowned. We must make the best

of a bad job.’ He sat down and took out a little leather mendy-bag, full

of reindeer-sinews and strips of leather, and lumps of bee’s-wax and

resin, and began to mend the spear.



Taffy sat down too, with her toes in the water and her chin in her

hand, and thought very hard. Then she said--‘I say, Daddy, it’s an awful

nuisance that you and I don’t know how to write, isn’t it? If we did we

could send a message for the new spear.’



‘Taffy,’ said Tegumai, ‘how often have I told you not to use slang?

“Awful” isn’t a pretty word, but it could be a convenience, now you

mention it, if we could write home.’



Just then a Stranger-man came along the river, but he belonged to a

far tribe, the Tewaras, and he did not understand one word of Tegumai’s

language. He stood on the bank and smiled at Taffy, because he had

a little girl-daughter Of his own at home. Tegumai drew a hank of

deer-sinews from his mendy-bag and began to mend his spear.



‘Come here, said Taffy. ‘Do you know where my Mummy lives?’ And the

Stranger-man said ‘Um!’ being, as you know, a Tewara.



‘Silly!’ said Taffy, and she stamped her foot, because she saw a shoal

of very big carp going up the river just when her Daddy couldn’t use his

spear.



‘Don’t bother grown-ups,’ said Tegumai, so busy with his spear-mending

that he did not turn round.



‘I aren’t, said Taffy. ‘I only want him to do what I want him to do, and

he won’t understand.’



‘Then don’t bother me, said Tegumai, and he went on pulling and

straining at the deer-sinews with his mouth full of loose ends. The

Stranger-man--a genuine Tewara he was--sat down on the grass, and Taffy

showed him what her Daddy was doing. The Stranger-man thought, this is a

very wonderful child. She stamps her foot at me and she makes faces. She

must be the daughter of that noble Chief who is so great that he won’t

take any notice of me.’ So he smiled more politely than ever.



‘Now,’ said Taffy, ‘I want you to go to my Mummy, because your legs are

longer than mine, and you won’t fall into the beaver-swamp, and ask for

Daddy’s other spear--the one with the black handle that hangs over our

fireplace.’



The Stranger-man (and he was a Tewara) thought, ‘This is a very, very

wonderful child. She waves her arms and she shouts at me, but I don’t

understand a word of what she says. But if I don’t do what she wants, I

greatly fear that that haughty Chief, Man-who-turns-his-back-on-callers,

will be angry.’ He got up and twisted a big flat piece of bark off a

birch-tree and gave it to Taffy. He did this, Best Beloved, to show that

his heart was as white as the birch-bark and that he meant no harm; but

Taffy didn’t quite understand.



‘Oh!’ said she. ‘Now I see! You want my Mummy’s living-address? Of

course I can’t write, but I can draw pictures if I’ve anything sharp to

scratch with. Please lend me the shark’s tooth off your necklace.’



The Stranger-man (and he was a Tewara) didn’t say anything, So Taffy

put up her little hand and pulled at the beautiful bead and seed and

shark-tooth necklace round his neck.



The Stranger-man (and he was a Tewara) thought, ‘This is a very, very,

very wonderful child. The shark’s tooth on my necklace is a magic

shark’s tooth, and I was always told that if anybody touched it without

my leave they would immediately swell up or burst, but this

child doesn’t swell up or burst, and that important Chief,

Man-who-attends-strictly-to-his-business, who has not yet taken any

notice of me at all, doesn’t seem to be afraid that she will swell up or

burst. I had better be more polite.’



So he gave Taffy the shark’s tooth, and she lay down flat on her tummy

with her legs in the air, like some people on the drawing-room floor

when they want to draw pictures, and she said, ‘Now I’ll draw you some

beautiful pictures! You can look over my shoulder, but you mustn’t

joggle. First I’ll draw Daddy fishing. It isn’t very like him; but Mummy

will know, because I’ve drawn his spear all broken. Well, now I’ll draw

the other spear that he wants, the black-handled spear. It looks as if

it was sticking in Daddy’s back, but that’s because the shark’s tooth

slipped and this piece of bark isn’t big enough. That’s the spear I want

you to fetch; so I’ll draw a picture of me myself ‘splaining to you. My

hair doesn’t stand up like I’ve drawn, but it’s easier to draw that way.

Now I’ll draw you. I think you’re very nice really, but I can’t make you

pretty in the picture, so you mustn’t be ‘fended. Are you ‘fended?’



The Stranger-man (and he was a Tewara) smiled. He thought, ‘There must

be a big battle going to be fought somewhere, and this extraordinary

child, who takes my magic shark’s tooth but who does not swell up or

burst, is telling me to call all the great Chief’s tribe to help him. He

is a great Chief, or he would have noticed me.



‘Look,’ said Taffy, drawing very hard and rather scratchily, ‘now I’ve

drawn you, and I’ve put the spear that Daddy wants into your hand, just

to remind you that you’re to bring it. Now I’ll show you how to find my

Mummy’s living-address. You go along till you come to two trees (those

are trees), and then you go over a hill (that’s a hill), and then you

come into a beaver-swamp all full of beavers. I haven’t put in all the

beavers, because I can’t draw beavers, but I’ve drawn their heads, and

that’s all you’ll see of them when you cross the swamp. Mind you don’t

fall in! Then our Cave is just beyond the beaver-swamp. It isn’t as high

as the hills really, but I can’t draw things very small. That’s my Mummy

outside. She is beautiful. She is the most beautifullest Mummy there

ever was, but she won’t be ‘fended when she sees I’ve drawn her so

plain. She’ll be pleased of me because I can draw. Now, in case you

forget, I’ve drawn the spear that Daddy wants outside our Cave. It’s

inside really, but you show the picture to my Mummy and she’ll give it

you. I’ve made her holding up her hands, because I know she’ll be so

pleased to see you. Isn’t it a beautiful picture? And do you quite

understand, or shall I ‘splain again?’



The Stranger-man (and he was a Tewara) looked at the picture and nodded

very hard. He said to himself,’ If I do not fetch this great Chief’s

tribe to help him, he will be slain by his enemies who are coming up on

all sides with spears. Now I see why the great Chief pretended not to

notice me! He feared that his enemies were hiding in the bushes and

would see him. Therefore he turned to me his back, and let the wise and

wonderful child draw the terrible picture showing me his difficulties.

I will away and get help for him from his tribe.’ He did not even ask

Taffy the road, but raced off into the bushes like the wind, with the

birch-bark in his hand, and Taffy sat down most pleased.



Now this is the picture that Taffy had drawn for him!



‘What have you been doing, Taffy?’ said Tegumai. He had mended his spear

and was carefully waving it to and fro.


