The conference under the peepul-tree had been growing noisier and
noisier, at the far end of the village. It broke in wild yells, and a
rush up the street of men and women, waving clubs and bamboos and
sickles and knives. Buldeo and the Brahmin were at the head of it, but
the mob was close at their heels, and they cried, "The witch and the
wizard! Let us see if hot coins will make them confess! Burn the hut
over their heads! We will teach them to shelter wolf-devils! Nay, beat
them first! Torches! More torches! Buldeo, heat the gun-barrels!"

Here was some little difficulty with the catch of the door. It had
been very firmly fastened, but the crowd tore it away bodily, and the
light of the torches streamed into the room where, stretched at full
length on the bed, his paws crossed and lightly hung down over one
end, black as the Pit, and terrible as a demon, was Bagheera. There
was one half-minute of desperate silence, as the front ranks of the
crowd clawed and tore their way back from the threshold, and in that
minute Bagheera raised his head and yawned--elaborately, carefully,
and ostentatiously--as he would yawn when he wished to insult an
equal. The fringed lips drew back and up; the red tongue curled; the
lower jaw dropped and dropped till you could see half-way down the hot
gullet; and the gigantic dog-teeth stood clear to the pit of the gums
till they rang together, upper and under, with the snick of
steel-faced wards shooting home round the edges of a safe. Next
instant the street was empty; Bagheera had leaped back through the
window, and stood at Mowgli's side, while a yelling, screaming torrent
scrambled and tumbled one over another in their panic haste to get to
their own huts.

"They will not stir till day comes," said Bagheera quietly. "And now?"

The silence of the afternoon sleep seemed to have overtaken the
village, but, as they listened, they could hear the sound of heavy
grain-boxes being dragged over earthen floors and set down against
doors. Bagheera was quite right; the village would not stir till
daylight. Mowgli sat still, and thought, and his face grew darker and
darker.

"What have I done?" said Bagheera, at last, coming to his feet,
fawning.

"Nothing but great good. Watch them now till the day. I sleep." Mowgli
ran off into the Jungle, and dropped like a dead man across a rock,
and slept and slept the day round, and the night back again.

When he waked, Bagheera was at his side, and there was a newly-killed
buck at his feet. Bagheera watched curiously while Mowgli went to work
with his skinning-knife, ate and drank, and turned over with his chin
in his hands.

"The man and the woman are come safe within eye-shot of Kanhiwara,"
Bagheera said. "Thy lair mother sent the word back by Chil, the Kite.
They found a horse before midnight of the night they were freed, and
went very quickly. Is not that well?"

"That is well," said Mowgli.

"And thy Man-Pack in the village did not stir till the sun was high
this morning. Then they ate their food and ran back quickly to their
houses."

"Did they, by chance, see thee?"

"It may have been. I was rolling in the dust before the gate at dawn,
and I may have made also some small song to myself. Now, Little
Brother, there is nothing more to do. Come hunting with me and Baloo.
He has new hives that he wishes to show, and we all desire thee back
again as of old. Take off that look which makes even me afraid! The
man and woman will not be put into the Red Flower, and all goes well
in the Jungle. Is it not true? Let us forget the Man-Pack."

"They shall be forgotten in a little while. Where does Hathi feed
to-night?"

"Where he chooses. Who can answer for the Silent One? But why? What is
there Hathi can do which we cannot?"

"Bid him and his three sons come here to me."

"But, indeed, and truly, Little Brother, it is not--it is not seemly
to say 'Come,' and 'Go,' to Hathi. Remember, he is the Master of the
Jungle, and before the Man-Pack changed the look on thy face, he
taught thee the Master-words of the Jungle."

"That is all one. I have a Master-word for him now. Bid him come to
Mowgli, the Frog, and if he does not hear at first, bid him come
because of the Sack of the Fields of Bhurtpore."
