

   Rod. Sir, Sir, Sir



   Bra. But thou must needs be sure,

My spirits and my place haue in their power

To make this bitter to thee



   Rodo. Patience good Sir



   Bra. What tell'st thou me of Robbing?

This is Venice: my house is not a Grange



   Rodo. Most graue Brabantio,

In simple and pure soule, I come to you



   Ia. Sir: you are one of those that will not serue God,

if the deuill bid you. Because we come to do you seruice,

and you thinke we are Ruffians, you'le haue your Daughter

couer'd with a Barbary horse, you'le haue your Nephewes

neigh to you, you'le haue Coursers for Cozens:

and Gennets for Germaines



   Bra. What prophane wretch art thou?

  Ia. I am one Sir, that comes to tell you, your Daughter

and the Moore, are making the Beast with two backs



   Bra. Thou art a Villaine



   Iago. You are a Senator



   Bra. This thou shalt answere. I know thee Rodorigo



   Rod. Sir, I will answere any thing. But I beseech you

If't be your pleasure, and most wise consent,

(As partly I find it is) that your faire Daughter,

At this odde Euen and dull watch o'th' night

Transported with no worse nor better guard,

But with a knaue of common hire, a Gundelier,

To the grosse claspes of a Lasciuious Moore:

If this be knowne to you, and your Allowance,

We then haue done you bold, and saucie wrongs.

But if you know not this, my Manners tell me,

We haue your wrong rebuke. Do not beleeue

That from the sence of all Ciuilitie,

I thus would play and trifle with your Reuerence.

Your Daughter (if you haue not giuen her leaue)

I say againe, hath made a grosse reuolt,

Tying her Dutie, Beautie, Wit, and Fortunes

In an extrauagant, and wheeling Stranger,

Of here, and euery where: straight satisfie your selfe.

If she be in her Chamber, or your house,

Let loose on me the Iustice of the State

For thus deluding you



   Bra. Strike on the Tinder, hoa:

Giue me a Taper: call vp all my people,

This Accident is not vnlike my dreame,

Beleefe of it oppresses me alreadie.

Light, I say, light.

Enter.



  Iag. Farewell: for I must leaue you.

It seemes not meete, nor wholesome to my place

To be producted, (as if I stay, I shall,)

Against the Moore. For I do know the State,

(How euer this may gall him with some checke)

Cannot with safetie cast-him. For he's embark'd

With such loud reason to the Cyprus Warres,

(Which euen now stands in Act) that for their soules

Another of his Fadome, they haue none,

To lead their Businesse. In which regard,

Though I do hate him as I do hell paines,

Yet, for necessitie of present life,

I must show out a Flag, and signe of Loue,

(Which is indeed but signe) that you shal surely find him

Lead to the Sagitary the raised Search:

And there will I be with him. So farewell.



Enter.



Enter Brabantio, with Seruants and Torches.



  Bra. It is too true an euill. Gone she is,

And what's to come of my despised time,

Is naught but bitternesse. Now Rodorigo,

Where didst thou see her? (Oh vnhappie Girle)

With the Moore saist thou? (Who would be a Father?)

How didst thou know 'twas she? (Oh she deceaues me

Past thought:) what said she to you? Get moe Tapers.

Raise all my Kindred. Are they married thinke you?

  Rodo. Truely I thinke they are



   Bra. Oh Heauen: how got she out?

Oh treason of the blood.

Fathers, from hence trust not your Daughters minds

By what you see them act. Is there not Charmes,

By which the propertie of Youth, and Maidhood

May be abus'd? Haue you not read Rodorigo,

Of some such thing?

  Rod. Yes Sir: I haue indeed



   Bra. Call vp my Brother: oh would you had had her.

Some one way, some another. Doe you know

Where we may apprehend her, and the Moore?

  Rod. I thinke I can discouer him, if you please

To get good Guard, and go along with me



   Bra. Pray you lead on. At euery house Ile call,

(I may command at most) get Weapons (hoa)

And raise some speciall Officers of might:

On good Rodorigo, I will deserue your paines.



Exeunt.





Scena Secunda.



Enter Othello, Iago, Attendants, with Torches.



  Ia. Though in the trade of Warre I haue slaine men,

Yet do I hold it very stuffe o'th' conscience

To do no contriu'd Murder: I lacke Iniquitie

Sometime to do me seruice. Nine, or ten times

I had thought t'haue yerk'd him here vnder the Ribbes



   Othello. 'Tis better as it is



   Iago. Nay but he prated,

And spoke such scuruy, and prouoking termes

Against your Honor, that with the little godlinesse I haue

I did full hard forbeare him. But I pray you Sir,

Are you fast married? Be assur'd of this,

That the Magnifico is much belou'd,

And hath in his effect a voice potentiall

As double as the Dukes: He will diuorce you.

Or put vpon you, what restraint or greeuance,

The Law (with all his might, to enforce it on)

Will giue him Cable



   Othel. Let him do his spight;

My Seruices, which I haue done the Signorie

Shall out-tongue his Complaints. 'Tis yet to know,

Which when I know, that boasting is an Honour,

I shall promulgate. I fetch my life and being,

From Men of Royall Seige. And my demerites

May speake (vnbonnetted) to as proud a Fortune

As this that I haue reach'd. For know Iago,

But that I loue the gentle Desdemona,

I would not my vnhoused free condition

Put into Circumscription, and Confine,

For the Seas worth. But looke, what Lights come yond?



Enter Cassio, with Torches.



  Iago. Those are the raised Father, and his Friends:

You were best go in



   Othel. Not I: I must be found.

My Parts, my Title, and my perfect Soule

Shall manifest me rightly. Is it they?

  Iago. By Ianus, I thinke no



   Othel. The Seruants of the Dukes?

And my Lieutenant?

The goodnesse of the Night vpon you (Friends)

What is the Newes?

  Cassio. The Duke do's greet you (Generall)

And he requires your haste, Post-haste appearance,

Euen on the instant



   Othello. What is the matter, thinke you?

  Cassio. Something from Cyprus, as I may diuine:

It is a businesse of some heate. The Gallies

Haue sent a dozen sequent Messengers

This very night, at one anothers heeles:

And many of the Consuls, rais'd and met,

Are at the Dukes already. You haue bin hotly call'd for,

When being not at your Lodging to be found,

The Senate hath sent about three seuerall Quests,

To search you out



   Othel. 'Tis well I am found by you:

I will but spend a word here in the house,

And goe with you



   Cassio. Aunciant, what makes he heere?

  Iago. Faith, he to night hath boarded a Land Carract,

If it proue lawfull prize, he's made for euer



   Cassio. I do not vnderstand



   Iago. He's married



   Cassio. To who?

  Iago. Marry to- Come Captaine, will you go?

  Othel. Haue with you



   Cassio. Here comes another Troope to seeke for you.



Enter Brabantio, Rodorigo, with Officers, and Torches.



  Iago. It is Brabantio: Generall be aduis'd,

He comes to bad intent



   Othello. Holla, stand there



   Rodo. Signior, it is the Moore



   Bra. Downe with him, Theefe



   Iago. You, Rodorigo? Come Sir, I am for you



   Othe. Keepe vp your bright Swords, for the dew will

rust them. Good Signior, you shall more command with

yeares, then with your Weapons



   Bra. Oh thou foule Theefe,

Where hast thou stow'd my Daughter?

Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchaunted her

For Ile referre me to all things of sense,

(If she in Chaines of Magick were not bound)

Whether a Maid, so tender, Faire, and Happie,

So opposite to Marriage, that she shun'd

The wealthy curled Deareling of our Nation,

Would euer haue (t' encurre a generall mocke)

Run from her Guardage to the sootie bosome,

Of such a thing as thou: to feare, not to delight?

Iudge me the world, if 'tis not grosse in sense,

That thou hast practis'd on her with foule Charmes,

Abus'd her delicate Youth, with Drugs or Minerals,

That weakens Motion. Ile haue't disputed on,

'Tis probable, and palpable to thinking;

I therefore apprehend and do attach thee,

For an abuser of the World, a practiser

Of Arts inhibited, and out of warrant;

Lay hold vpon him, if he do resist

Subdue him, at his perill



   Othe. Hold your hands

Both you of my inclining, and the rest.

Were it my Cue to fight, I should haue knowne it

Without a Prompter. Whether will you that I goe

To answere this your charge?

  Bra. To Prison, till fit time

Of Law, and course of direct Session

Call thee to answer



   Othe. What if I do obey?

How may the Duke be therewith satisfi'd,

Whose Messengers are heere about my side,

Vpon some present businesse of the State,

To bring me to him



   Officer. 'Tis true most worthy Signior,

The Dukes in Counsell, and your Noble selfe,

I am sure is sent for



   Bra. How? The Duke in Counsell?

In this time of the night? Bring him away;

Mine's not an idle Cause. The Duke himselfe,

Or any of my Brothers of the State,

Cannot but feele this wrong, as 'twere their owne:

For if such Actions may haue passage free,

Bond-slaues, and Pagans shall our Statesmen be.



Exeunt.



Scaena Tertia.



Enter Duke, Senators, and Officers.



  Duke. There's no composition in this Newes,

That giues them Credite



   1.Sen. Indeed, they are disproportioned;

My Letters say, a Hundred and seuen Gallies



   Duke. And mine a Hundred fortie



   2.Sena. And mine two Hundred:

But though they iumpe not on a iust accompt,

(As in these Cases where the ayme reports,

'Tis oft with difference) yet do they all confirme

A Turkish Fleete, and bearing vp to Cyprus



   Duke. Nay, it is possible enough to iudgement:

I do not so secure me in the Error,

But the maine Article I do approue

In fearefull sense



   Saylor within. What hoa, what hoa, what hoa.



Enter Saylor.



  Officer. A Messenger from the Gallies



   Duke. Now? What's the businesse?

  Sailor. The Turkish Preparation makes for Rhodes,

So was I bid report here to the State,

By Signior Angelo



   Duke. How say you by this change?

  1.Sen. This cannot be

By no assay of reason. 'Tis a Pageant

To keepe vs in false gaze, when we consider

Th' importancie of Cyprus to the Turke;

And let our selues againe but vnderstand,

That as it more concernes the Turke then Rhodes,

So may he with more facile question beare it,

For that it stands not in such Warrelike brace,

But altogether lackes th' abilities

That Rhodes is dress'd in. If we make thought of this,

We must not thinke the Turke is so vnskillfull,

To leaue that latest, which concernes him first,

Neglecting an attempt of ease, and gaine

To wake, and wage a danger profitlesse



   Duke. Nay, in all confidence he's not for Rhodes



   Officer. Here is more Newes.



Enter a Messenger.



  Messen. The Ottamites, Reueren'd, and Gracious,

Steering with due course toward the Ile of Rhodes,

Haue there inioynted them with an after Fleete



   1.Sen. I, so I thought: how many, as you guesse?

  Mess. Of thirtie Saile: and now they do re-stem

Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance

Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,

Your trustie and most Valiant Seruitour,

With his free dutie, recommends you thus,

And prayes you to beleeue him



   Duke. 'Tis certaine then for Cyprus:

Marcus Luccicos is not he in Towne?

  1.Sen. He's now in Florence



   Duke. Write from vs,

To him, Post, Post-haste, dispatch



   1.Sen. Here comes Brabantio, and the Valiant Moore.



Enter Brabantio, Othello, Cassio, Iago, Rodorigo, and Officers.



  Duke. Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you,

Against the generall Enemy Ottoman.

I did not see you: welcome gentle Signior,

We lack't your Counsaile, and your helpe to night



   Bra. So did I yours: Good your Grace pardon me.

Neither my place, nor ought I heard of businesse

Hath rais'd me from my bed; nor doth the generall care

Take hold on me. For my perticular griefe

Is of so flood-gate, and ore-bearing Nature,

That it engluts, and swallowes other sorrowes,

And it is still it selfe



   Duke. Why? What's the matter?

  Bra. My Daughter: oh my Daughter!

  Sen. Dead?

  Bra. I, to me.

She is abus'd, stolne from me, and corrupted

By Spels, and Medicines, bought of Mountebanks;

For Nature, so prepostrously to erre,

(Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,)

Sans witch-craft could not



   Duke. Who ere he be, that in this foule proceeding

Hath thus beguil'd your Daughter of her selfe,

And you of her; the bloodie Booke of Law,

You shall your selfe read, in the bitter letter,

After your owne sense: yea, though our proper Son

Stood in your Action



   Bra. Humbly I thanke your Grace,

Here is the man; this Moore, whom now it seemes

Your speciall Mandate, for the State affaires

Hath hither brought



   All. We are verie sorry for't



   Duke. What in your owne part, can you say to this?

  Bra. Nothing, but this is so



   Othe. Most Potent, Graue, and Reueren'd Signiors,

My very Noble, and approu'd good Masters;

That I haue tane away this old mans Daughter,

It is most true: true I haue married her;

The verie head, and front of my offending,

Hath this extent; no more. Rude am I, in my speech,

And little bless'd with the soft phrase of Peace;

For since these Armes of mine, had seuen yeares pith,

Till now, some nine Moones wasted, they haue vs'd

Their deerest action, in the Tented Field:

And little of this great world can I speake,

More then pertaines to Feats of Broiles, and Battaile,

And therefore little shall I grace my cause,

In speaking for my selfe. Yet, (by your gratious patience)

I will a round vn-varnish'd Tale deliuer,

Of my whole course of Loue.

What Drugges, what Charmes,

What Coniuration, and what mighty Magicke,

(For such proceeding I am charg'd withall)

I won his Daughter



   Bra. A Maiden, neuer bold:

Of Spirit so still, and quiet, that her Motion

Blush'd at her selfe, and she, in spight of Nature,

Of Yeares, of Country, Credite, euery thing

To fall in Loue, with what she fear'd to looke on;

It is a iudgement main'd, and most imperfect.

That will confesse Perfection so could erre

Against all rules of Nature, and must be driuen

To find out practises of cunning hell

Why this should be. I therefore vouch againe,

That with some Mixtures, powrefull o're the blood,

Or with some Dram, (coniur'd to this effect)

He wrought vpon her.

To vouch this, is no proofe,

Without more wider, and more ouer Test

Then these thin habits, and poore likely-hoods

Of moderne seeming, do prefer against him



   Sen. But Othello, speake,

Did you, by indirect, and forced courses

Subdue, and poyson this yong Maides affections?

Or came it by request, and such faire question

As soule, to soule affordeth?

  Othel. I do beseech you,

Send for the Lady to the Sagitary,

And let her speake of me before her Father;

If you do finde me foule, in her report,

The Trust, the Office, I do hold of you,

Not onely take away, but let your Sentence

Euen fall vpon my life



   Duke. Fetch Desdemona hither



   Othe. Aunciant, conduct them:
