Macb. Whence is that knocking?

How is't with me, when euery noyse appalls me?

What Hands are here? hah: they pluck out mine Eyes.

Will all great Neptunes Ocean wash this blood

Cleane from my Hand? no: this my Hand will rather

The multitudinous Seas incarnardine,

Making the Greene one, Red.

Enter Lady.



  Lady. My Hands are of your colour: but I shame

To weare a Heart so white.



Knocke.



I heare a knocking at the South entry:

Retyre we to our Chamber:

A little Water cleares vs of this deed.

How easie is it then? your Constancie

Hath left you vnattended.



Knocke.



Hearke, more knocking.

Get on your Night-Gowne, least occasion call vs,

And shew vs to be Watchers: be not lost

So poorely in your thoughts



   Macb. To know my deed,



Knocke.



'Twere best not know my selfe.

Wake Duncan with thy knocking:

I would thou could'st.



Exeunt.





Scena Tertia.



Enter a Porter. Knocking within.



  Porter. Here's a knocking indeede: if a man were

Porter of Hell Gate, hee should haue old turning the

Key.



Knock.



Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there

i'th' name of Belzebub? Here's a Farmer, that hang'd

himselfe on th' expectation of Plentie: Come in time, haue

Napkins enow about you, here you'le sweat for't.



Knock.



Knock, knock. Who's there in th' other Deuils Name?

Faith here's an Equiuocator, that could sweare in both

the Scales against eyther Scale, who committed Treason

enough for Gods sake, yet could not equiuocate to Heauen:

oh come in, Equiuocator.



Knock.



Knock, Knock, Knock. Who's there? 'Faith here's an English

Taylor come hither, for stealing out of a French Hose:

Come in Taylor, here you may rost your Goose.

Knock.



Knock, Knock. Neuer at quiet: What are you? but this

place is too cold for Hell. Ile Deuill-Porter it no further:

I had thought to haue let in some of all Professions, that

goe the Primrose way to th' euerlasting Bonfire.



Knock.



Anon, anon, I pray you remember the Porter.

Enter Macduff, and Lenox.



  Macd. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to Bed,

That you doe lye so late?

  Port. Faith Sir, we were carowsing till the second Cock:

And Drinke, Sir, is a great prouoker of three things



   Macd. What three things does Drinke especially

prouoke?

  Port. Marry, Sir, Nose-painting, Sleepe, and Vrine.

Lecherie, Sir, it prouokes, and vnprouokes: it prouokes

the desire, but it takes away the performance. Therefore

much Drinke may be said to be an Equiuocator with Lecherie:

it makes him, and it marres him; it sets him on,

and it takes him off; it perswades him, and dis-heartens

him; makes him stand too, and not stand too: in conclusion,

equiuocates him in a sleepe, and giuing him the Lye,

leaues him



   Macd. I beleeue, Drinke gaue thee the Lye last Night



   Port. That it did, Sir, i'the very Throat on me: but I

requited him for his Lye, and (I thinke) being too strong

for him, though he tooke vp my Legges sometime, yet I

made a Shift to cast him.

Enter Macbeth.



  Macd. Is thy Master stirring?

Our knocking ha's awak'd him: here he comes



   Lenox. Good morrow, Noble Sir



   Macb. Good morrow both



   Macd. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?

  Macb. Not yet



   Macd. He did command me to call timely on him,

I haue almost slipt the houre



   Macb. Ile bring you to him



   Macd. I know this is a ioyfull trouble to you:

But yet 'tis one



   Macb. The labour we delight in, Physicks paine:

This is the Doore



   Macd. Ile make so bold to call, for 'tis my limitted

seruice.



Exit Macduffe.



  Lenox. Goes the King hence to day?

  Macb. He does: he did appoint so



   Lenox. The Night ha's been vnruly:

Where we lay, our Chimneys were blowne downe,

And (as they say) lamentings heard i'th' Ayre;

Strange Schreemes of Death,

And Prophecying, with Accents terrible,

Of dyre Combustion, and confus'd Euents,

New hatch'd toth' wofull time.

The obscure Bird clamor'd the liue-long Night.

Some say, the Earth was Feuorous,

And did shake



   Macb. 'Twas a rough Night



   Lenox. My young remembrance cannot paralell

A fellow to it.

Enter Macduff.



  Macd. O horror, horror, horror,

Tongue nor Heart cannot conceiue, nor name thee



   Macb. and Lenox. What's the matter?

  Macd. Confusion now hath made his Master-peece:

Most sacrilegious Murther hath broke ope

The Lords anoynted Temple, and stole thence

The Life o'th' Building



   Macb. What is't you say, the Life?

  Lenox. Meane you his Maiestie?

  Macd. Approch the Chamber, and destroy your sight

With a new Gorgon. Doe not bid me speake:

See, and then speake your selues: awake, awake,



Exeunt. Macbeth and Lenox.



Ring the Alarum Bell: Murther, and Treason,

Banquo, and Donalbaine: Malcolme awake,

Shake off this Downey sleepe, Deaths counterfeit,

And looke on Death it selfe: vp, vp, and see

The great Doomes Image: Malcolme, Banquo,

As from your Graues rise vp, and walke like Sprights,

To countenance this horror. Ring the Bell.



Bell rings. Enter Lady.



  Lady. What's the Businesse?

That such a hideous Trumpet calls to parley

The sleepers of the House? speake, speake



   Macd. O gentle Lady,

'Tis not for you to heare what I can speake:

The repetition in a Womans eare,

Would murther as it fell.

Enter Banquo.



O Banquo, Banquo, Our Royall Master's murther'd



   Lady. Woe, alas:

What, in our House?

  Ban. Too cruell, any where.

Deare Duff, I prythee contradict thy selfe,

And say, it is not so.

Enter Macbeth, Lenox, and Rosse.



  Macb. Had I but dy'd an houre before this chance,

I had liu'd a blessed time: for from this instant,

There's nothing serious in Mortalitie:

All is but Toyes: Renowne and Grace is dead,

The Wine of Life is drawne, and the meere Lees

Is left this Vault, to brag of.

Enter Malcolme and Donalbaine.



  Donal. What is amisse?

  Macb. You are, and doe not know't:

The Spring, the Head, the Fountaine of your Blood

Is stopt, the very Source of it is stopt



   Macd. Your Royall Father's murther'd


