Enter Othello, Iago, and Gentlemen.



  Othe. These Letters giue (Iago) to the Pylot,

And by him do my duties to the Senate:

That done, I will be walking on the Workes,

Repaire there to mee



   Iago. Well, my good Lord, Ile doo't



   Oth. This Fortification (Gentlemen) shall we see't?

  Gent. Well waite vpon your Lordship.



Exeunt.



Scoena Tertia.



Enter Desdemona, Cassio, and aemilia.



  Des. Be thou assur'd (good Cassio) I will do

All my abilities in thy behalfe.

Aemil. Good Madam do:

I warrant it greeues my Husband,

As if the cause were his



   Des. Oh that's an honest Fellow, Do not doubt Cassio

But I will haue my Lord, and you againe

As friendly as you were



   Cassio. Bounteous Madam,

What euer shall become of Michael Cassio,

He's neuer any thing but your true Seruant



   Des. I know't: I thanke you: you do loue my Lord:

You haue knowne him long, and be you well assur'd

He shall in strangenesse stand no farther off,

Then in a politique distance



   Cassio. I, but Lady,

That policie may either last so long,

Or feede vpon such nice and waterish diet,

Or breede it selfe so out of Circumstances,

That I being absent, and my place supply'd,

My Generall will forget my Loue, and Seruice



   Des. Do not doubt that: before aemilia here,

I giue thee warrant of thy place. Assure thee,

If I do vow a friendship, Ile performe it

To the last Article. My Lord shall neuer rest,

Ile watch him tame, and talke him out of patience;

His Bed shall seeme a Schoole, his Boord a Shrift,

Ile intermingle euery thing he do's

With Cassio's suite: Therefore be merry Cassio,

For thy Solicitor shall rather dye,

Then giue thy cause away.

Enter Othello, and Iago.



Aemil. Madam, heere comes my Lord



   Cassio. Madam, Ile take my leaue



   Des. Why stay, and heare me speake



   Cassio. Madam, not now: I am very ill at ease,

Vnfit for mine owne purposes



   Des. Well, do your discretion.



Exit Cassio.



  Iago. Hah? I like not that



   Othel. What dost thou say?

  Iago. Nothing my Lord; or if- I know not what



   Othel. Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?

  Iago. Cassio my Lord? No sure, I cannot thinke it

That he would steale away so guilty-like,

Seeing your comming



   Oth. I do beleeue 'twas he



   Des. How now my Lord?

I haue bin talking with a Suitor heere,

A man that languishes in your displeasure



   Oth. Who is't you meane?

  Des. Why your Lieutenant Cassio: Good my Lord,

If I haue any grace, or power to moue you,

His present reconciliation take.

For if he be not one, that truly loues you,

That erres in Ignorance, and not in Cunning,

I haue no iudgement in an honest face.

I prythee call him backe



   Oth. Went he hence now?

  Des. I sooth; so humbled,

That he hath left part of his greefe with mee

To suffer with him. Good Loue, call him backe



   Othel. Not now (sweet Desdemon) some other time



   Des. But shall't be shortly?

  Oth. The sooner (Sweet) for you



   Des. Shall't be to night, at Supper?

  Oth. No, not to night



   Des. To morrow Dinner then?

  Oth. I shall not dine at home:

I meete the Captaines at the Cittadell



   Des. Why then to morrow night, on Tuesday morne,

On Tuesday noone, or night; on Wensday Morne.

I prythee name the time, but let it not

Exceed three dayes. Infaith hee's penitent:

And yet his Trespasse, in our common reason

(Saue that they say the warres must make example)

Out of her best, is not almost a fault

T' encurre a priuate checke. When shall he come?

Tell me Othello. I wonder in my Soule

What you would aske me, that I should deny,

Or stand so mam'ring on? What? Michael Cassio,

That came a woing with you? and so many a time

(When I haue spoke of you dispraisingly)

Hath tane your part, to haue so much to do

To bring him in? Trust me, I could do much



   Oth. Prythee no more: Let him come when he will:

I will deny thee nothing



   Des. Why, this is not a Boone:

'Tis as I should entreate you weare your Gloues,

Or feede on nourishing dishes, or keepe you warme,

Or sue to you, to do a peculiar profit

To your owne person. Nay, when I haue a suite

Wherein I meane to touch your Loue indeed,

It shall be full of poize, and difficult waight,

And fearefull to be granted



   Oth. I will deny thee nothing.

Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,

To leaue me but a little to my selfe



   Des. Shall I deny you? No: farewell my Lord



   Oth. Farewell my Desdemona, Ile come to thee strait



   Des. aemilia come; be as your Fancies teach you:

What ere you be, I am obedient.

Enter.



  Oth. Excellent wretch: Perdition catch my Soule

But I do loue thee: and when I loue thee not,

Chaos is come againe



   Iago. My Noble Lord



   Oth. What dost thou say, Iago?

  Iago. Did Michael Cassio

When he woo'd my Lady, know of your loue?

  Oth. He did, from first to last:

Why dost thou aske?

  Iago. But for a satisfaction of my Thought,

No further harme



   Oth. Why of thy thought, Iago?

  Iago. I did not thinke he had bin acquainted with hir



   Oth. O yes, and went betweene vs very oft



   Iago. Indeed?

  Oth. Indeed? I indeed. Discern'st thou ought in that?

Is he not honest?

  Iago. Honest, my Lord?

  Oth. Honest? I, Honest



   Iago. My Lord, for ought I know



   Oth. What do'st thou thinke?

  Iago. Thinke, my Lord?

  Oth. Thinke, my Lord? Alas, thou ecchos't me;

As if there were some Monster in thy thought

Too hideous to be shewne. Thou dost mean somthing:

I heard thee say euen now, thou lik'st not that,

When Cassio left my wife. What didd'st not like?

And when I told thee, he was of my Counsaile,

Of my whole course of wooing; thou cried'st, Indeede?

And didd'st contract, and purse thy brow together,

As if thou then hadd'st shut vp in thy Braine

Some horrible Conceite. If thou do'st loue me,

Shew me thy thought



   Iago. My Lord, you know I loue you



   Oth. I thinke thou do'st:

And for I know thou'rt full of Loue, and Honestie,

And weigh'st thy words before thou giu'st them breath,

Therefore these stops of thine, fright me the more:

For such things in a false disloyall Knaue

Are trickes of Custome: but in a man that's iust,

They're close dilations, working from the heart,

That Passion cannot rule



   Iago. For Michael Cassio,

I dare be sworne, I thinke that he is honest



   Oth. I thinke so too



   Iago. Men should be what they seeme,

Or those that be not, would they might seeme none



   Oth. Certaine, men should be what they seeme



   Iago. Why then I thinke Cassio's an honest man



   Oth. Nay, yet there's more in this?

I prythee speake to me, as to thy thinkings,

As thou dost ruminate, and giue thy worst of thoughts

The worst of words



   Iago. Good my Lord pardon me,

Though I am bound to euery Acte of dutie,

I am not bound to that: All Slaues are free:

Vtter my Thoughts? Why say, they are vild, and falce?

As where's that Palace, whereinto foule things

Sometimes intrude not? Who ha's that breast so pure,

Wherein vncleanly Apprehensions

Keepe Leetes, and Law-dayes, and in Sessions sit

With meditations lawfull?

  Oth. Thou do'st conspire against thy Friend (Iago)

If thou but think'st him wrong'd, and mak'st his eare

A stranger to thy Thoughts



   Iago. I do beseech you,

Though I perchance am vicious in my guesse

(As I confesse it is my Natures plague

To spy into Abuses, and of my iealousie

Shapes faults that are not) that your wisedome

From one, that so imperfectly conceits,

Would take no notice, nor build your selfe a trouble

Out of his scattering, and vnsure obseruance:

It were not for your quiet, nor your good,

Nor for my Manhood, Honesty, and Wisedome,

To let you know my thoughts



   Oth. What dost thou meane?

  Iago. Good name in Man, & woman (deere my Lord)

Is the immediate Iewell of their Soules;

Who steales my purse, steales trash:

'Tis something, nothing;

'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has bin slaue to thousands:

But he that filches from me my good Name,

Robs me of that, which not enriches him,

And makes me poore indeed



   Oth. Ile know thy Thoughts



   Iago. You cannot, if my heart were in your hand,

Nor shall not, whil'st 'tis in my custodie



   Oth. Ha?

  Iago. Oh, beware my Lord, of iealousie,

It is the greene-ey'd Monster, which doth mocke

The meate it feeds on. That Cuckold liues in blisse,

Who certaine of his Fate, loues not his wronger:

But oh, what damned minutes tels he ore,

Who dotes, yet doubts: Suspects, yet soundly loues?

  Oth. O miserie



   Iago. Poore, and Content, is rich, and rich enough,

But Riches finelesse, is as poore as Winter,

To him that euer feares he shall be poore:

Good Heauen, the Soules of all my Tribe defend

From Iealousie



   Oth. Why? why is this?

Think'st thou, I'ld make a Life of Iealousie;

To follow still the changes of the Moone

With fresh suspitions? No: to be once in doubt,

Is to be resolu'd: Exchange me for a Goat,

When I shall turne the businesse of my Soule

To such exufflicate, and blow'd Surmises,

Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me Iealious,

To say my wife is faire, feeds well, loues company,

Is free of Speech, Sings, Playes, and Dances:

Where Vertue is, these are more vertuous.

Nor from mine owne weake merites, will I draw

The smallest feare, or doubt of her reuolt,

For she had eyes, and chose me. No Iago,

Ile see before I doubt; when I doubt, proue;

And on the proofe, there is no more but this,

Away at once with Loue, or Iealousie



   Ia. I am glad of this: For now I shall haue reason

To shew the Loue and Duty that I beare you

With franker spirit. Therefore (as I am bound)

Receiue it from me. I speake not yet of proofe:

Looke to your wife, obserue her well with Cassio,

Weare your eyes, thus: not Iealious, nor Secure:

I would not haue your free, and Noble Nature,

Out of selfe-Bounty, be abus'd: Looke too't:

I know our Country disposition well:

In Venice, they do let Heauen see the prankes

They dare not shew their Husbands.

Their best Conscience,

Is not to leaue't vndone, but kept vnknowne



   Oth. Dost thou say so?

  Iago. She did deceiue her Father, marrying you,

And when she seem'd to shake, and feare your lookes,

She lou'd them most



   Oth. And so she did



   Iago. Why go too then:

Shee that so young could giue out such a Seeming

To seele her Fathers eyes vp, close as Oake,

He thought 'twas Witchcraft.

But I am much too blame:

I humbly do beseech you of your pardon

For too much louing you



   Oth. I am bound to thee for euer



   Iago. I see this hath a little dash'd your Spirits:

  Oth. Not a iot, not a iot



   Iago. Trust me, I feare it has:

I hope you will consider what is spoke

Comes from your Loue.

But I do see y'are moou'd:

I am to pray you, not to straine my speech

To grosser issues, nor to larger reach,

Then to Suspition



   Oth. I will not



   Iago. Should you do so (my Lord)

My speech should fall into such vilde successe,

Which my Thoughts aym'd not.

Cassio's my worthy Friend:

My Lord, I see y'are mou'd



   Oth. No, not much mou'd:

I do not thinke but Desdemona's honest



   Iago. Long liue she so;

And long liue you to thinke so



   Oth. And yet how Nature erring from it selfe



   Iago. I, there's the point:

As (to be bold with you)

Not to affect many proposed Matches

Of her owne Clime, Complexion, and Degree,

Whereto we see in all things, Nature tends:

Foh, one may smel in such, a will most ranke,

Foule disproportions, Thoughts vnnaturall.

But (pardon me) I do not in position

Distinctly speake of her, though I may feare

Her will, recoyling to her better iudgement,

May fal to match you with her Country formes,

And happily repent



   Oth. Farewell, farewell:

If more thou dost perceiue, let me know more:

Set on thy wife to obserue.

Leaue me Iago



   Iago. My Lord, I take my leaue



   Othel. Why did I marry?

This honest Creature (doubtlesse)

Sees, and knowes more, much more then he vnfolds



   Iago. My Lord, I would I might intreat your Honor

To scan this thing no farther: Leaue it to time,

Although 'tis fit that Cassio haue his Place;

For sure he filles it vp with great Ability;

Yet if you please, to him off a-while:

You shall by that perceiue him, and his meanes:

Note if your Lady straine his Entertainment

With any strong, or vehement importunitie,

Much will be seene in that: In the meane time,

Let me be thought too busie in my feares,

(As worthy cause I haue to feare I am)

And hold her free, I do beseech your Honor



   Oth. Feare not my gouernment



   Iago. I once more take my leaue.

Enter.
