 Iago. Sir, he's rash, and very sodaine in Choller: and

happely may strike at you, prouoke him that he may: for

euen out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to Mutiny.

Whose qualification shall come into no true taste againe,

but by the displanting of Cassio. So shall you

haue a shorter iourney to your desires, by the meanes I

shall then haue to preferre them. And the impediment

most profitably remoued, without the which there were

no expectation of our prosperitie



   Rodo. I will do this, if you can bring it to any opportunity



   Iago. I warrant thee. Meete me by and by at the

Cittadell. I must fetch his Necessaries a Shore. Farewell



   Rodo. Adieu.

Enter.



  Iago. That Cassio loues her, I do well beleeu't:

That she loues him, 'tis apt, and of great Credite.

The Moore (howbeit that I endure him not)

Is of a constant, louing, Noble Nature,

And I dare thinke, he'le proue to Desdemona

A most deere husband. Now I do loue her too,

Not out of absolute Lust, (though peraduenture

I stand accomptant for as great a sin)

But partely led to dyet my Reuenge,

For that I do suspect the lustie Moore

Hath leap'd into my Seate. The thought whereof,

Doth (like a poysonous Minerall) gnaw my Inwardes:

And nothing can, or shall content my Soule

Till I am eeuen'd with him, wife, for wife.

Or fayling so, yet that I put the Moore,

At least into a Ielouzie so strong

That iudgement cannot cure. Which thing to do,

If this poore Trash of Venice, whom I trace

For his quicke hunting, stand the putting on,

Ile haue our Michael Cassio on the hip,

Abuse him to the Moore, in the right garbe

(For I feare Cassio with my Night-Cape too)

Make the Moore thanke me, loue me, and reward me,

For making him egregiously an Asse,

And practising vpon his peace, and quiet,

Euen to madnesse. 'Tis heere: but yet confus'd,

Knaueries plaine face, is neuer seene, till vs'd.

Enter.





Scena Secunda.



Enter Othello's Herald with a Proclamation.



  Herald. It is Othello's pleasure, our Noble and Valiant

Generall. That vpon certaine tydings now arriu'd,

importing the meere perdition of the Turkish Fleete:

euery man put himselfe into Triumph. Some to daunce,

some to make Bonfires, each man, to what Sport and

Reuels his addition leads him. For besides these beneficiall

Newes, it is the Celebration of his Nuptiall. So

much was his pleasure should be proclaimed. All offices

are open, & there is full libertie of Feasting from this

present houre of fiue, till the Bell haue told eleuen.

Blesse the Isle of Cyprus, and our Noble Generall Othello.

Enter.



Enter Othello, Desdemona, Cassio, and Attendants.



  Othe. Good Michael, looke you to the guard to night.

Let's teach our selues that Honourable stop,

Not to out-sport discretion



   Cas. Iago, hath direction what to do.

But notwithstanding with my personall eye

Will I looke to't



   Othe. Iago, is most honest:

Michael, goodnight. To morrow with your earliest,

Let me haue speech with you. Come my deere Loue,

The purchase made, the fruites are to ensue,

That profit's yet to come 'tweene me, and you.

Goodnight.

Enter.



Enter Iago.



  Cas. Welcome Iago: we must to the Watch



   Iago. Not this houre Lieutenant: 'tis not yet ten

o'th' clocke. Our Generall cast vs thus earely for the

loue of his Desdemona: Who, let vs not therefore blame;

he hath not yet made wanton the night with her: and

she is sport for Ioue



   Cas. She's a most exquisite Lady



   Iago. And Ile warrant her, full of Game



   Cas. Indeed shes a most fresh and delicate creature



   Iago. What an eye she ha's?

Me thinkes it sounds a parley to prouocation



   Cas. An inuiting eye:

And yet me thinkes right modest



   Iago. And when she speakes,

Is it not an Alarum to Loue?

  Cas. She is indeed perfection



   Iago. Well: happinesse to their Sheetes. Come Lieutenant,

I haue a stope of Wine, and heere without are a

brace of Cyprus Gallants, that would faine haue a measure

to the health of blacke Othello



   Cas. Not to night, good Iago, I haue very poore,

and vnhappie Braines for drinking. I could well wish

Curtesie would inuent some other Custome of entertainment



   Iago. Oh, they are our Friends: but one Cup, Ile

drinke for you



   Cassio. I haue drunke but one Cup to night, and that

was craftily qualified too: and behold what inouation

it makes heere. I am infortunate in the infirmity, and

dare not taske my weakenesse with any more



   Iago. What man? 'Tis a night of Reuels, the Gallants

desire it



   Cas. Where are they?

  Iago. Heere, at the doore: I pray you call them in



   Cas. Ile do't, but it dislikes me.

Enter.



  Iago. If I can fasten but one Cup vpon him

With that which he hath drunke to night alreadie,

He'l be as full of Quarrell, and offence

As my yong Mistris dogge.

Now my sicke Foole Rodorigo,

Whom Loue hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,

To Desdemona hath to night Carrows'd.

Potations, pottle-deepe; and he's to watch.

Three else of Cyprus, Noble swelling Spirites,

(That hold their Honours in a wary distance,

The very Elements of this Warrelike Isle)

Haue I to night fluster'd with flowing Cups,

And they Watch too.

Now 'mongst this Flocke of drunkards

Am I put to our Cassio in some Action

That may offend the Isle. But here they come.

Enter Cassio, Montano, and Gentlemen.



If Consequence do but approue my dreame,

My Boate sailes freely, both with winde and Streame



   Cas. 'Fore heauen, they haue giuen me a rowse already



   Mon. Good-faith a litle one: not past a pint, as I am a

Souldier



   Iago. Some Wine hoa.

And let me the Cannakin clinke, clinke:

And let me the Cannakin clinke.

A Souldiers a man: Oh, mans life's but a span,

Why then let a Souldier drinke.

Some Wine Boyes



   Cas. 'Fore Heauen: an excellent Song



   Iago. I learn'd it in England: where indeed they are

most potent in Potting. Your Dane, your Germaine,

and your swag-belly'd Hollander, (drinke hoa) are

nothing to your English



   Cassio. Is your Englishmen so exquisite in his drinking?

  Iago. Why, he drinkes you with facillitie, your Dane

dead drunke. He sweates not to ouerthrow your Almaine.

He giues your Hollander a vomit, ere the next

Pottle can be fill'd



   Cas. To the health of our Generall



   Mon. I am for it Lieutenant: and Ile do you Iustice


