Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd

heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to the court? for, by my

fay, I cannot reason.



Ros. and Guild.

We'll wait upon you.



Ham.

No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest of my

servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most

dreadfully attended. But, in the beaten way of friendship, what

make you at Elsinore?



Ros.

To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.



Ham.

Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you:

and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were

you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free

visitation? Come, deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.



Guil.

What should we say, my lord?



Ham.

Why, anything--but to the purpose. You were sent for; and

there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties

have not craft enough to colour: I know the good king and queen

have sent for you.



Ros.

To what end, my lord?



Ham.

That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by the rights

of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the

obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a

better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with

me, whether you were sent for or no.



Ros.

[To Guildenstern.] What say you?



Ham.

[Aside.] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you love me, hold

not off.



Guil.

My lord, we were sent for.



Ham.

I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation prevent your

discovery, and your secrecy to the king and queen moult no

feather. I have of late,--but wherefore I know not,--lost all my

mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so

heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,

seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the

air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical

roof fretted with golden fire,--why, it appears no other thing

to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a

piece of work is man! How noble in reason! how infinite in

faculties! in form and moving, how express and admirable! in

action how like an angel! in apprehension, how like a god! the

beauty of the world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me, what

is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me; no, nor woman

neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.



Ros.

My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.



Ham.

Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?



Ros.

To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten

entertainment the players shall receive from you: we coted them

on the way; and hither are they coming to offer you service.



Ham.

He that plays the king shall be welcome,--his majesty shall

have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and

target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall

end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose

lungs are tickle o' the sere; and the lady shall say her mind

freely, or the blank verse shall halt for't. What players are

they?



Ros.

Even those you were wont to take such delight in,--the

tragedians of the city.



Ham.

How chances it they travel? their residence, both in

reputation and profit, was better both ways.



Ros.

I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late

innovation.



Ham.

Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the

city? Are they so followed?



Ros.

No, indeed, are they not.



Ham.

How comes it? do they grow rusty?



Ros.

Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but there is,

sir, an aery of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top

of question, and are most tyrannically clapped for't: these are

now the fashion; and so berattle the common stages,--so they call

them,--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose-quills and

dare scarce come thither.



Ham.

What, are they children? who maintains 'em? How are they

escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can

sing? will they not say afterwards, if they should grow

themselves to common players,--as it is most like, if their means

are no better,--their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim

against their own succession?



Ros.

Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation

holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy: there was, for

awhile, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player

went to cuffs in the question.



Ham.

Is't possible?



Guil.

O, there has been much throwing about of brains.



Ham.

Do the boys carry it away?



Ros.

Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.



Ham.

It is not very strange; for my uncle is king of Denmark, and

those that would make mouths at him while my father lived, give

twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in

little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if

philosophy could find it out.



[Flourish of trumpets within.]



Guil.

There are the players.



Ham.

Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come: the

appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony: let me comply

with you in this garb; lest my extent to the players, which I

tell you must show fairly outward, should more appear like

entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my uncle-father

and aunt-mother are deceived.



Guil.

In what, my dear lord?



Ham.

I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is southerly I

know a hawk from a handsaw.



[Enter Polonius.]



Pol.

Well be with you, gentlemen!



Ham.

Hark you, Guildenstern;--and you too;--at each ear a hearer: that

great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts.



Ros.

Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old

man is twice a child.



Ham.

I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players; mark it.--You

say right, sir: o' Monday morning; 'twas so indeed.



Pol.

My lord, I have news to tell you.



Ham.

My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in

Rome,--



Pol.

The actors are come hither, my lord.



Ham.

Buzz, buzz!



Pol.

Upon my honour,--



Ham.

Then came each actor on his ass,--



Pol.

The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,

history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,

tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene

individable, or poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy nor

Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are

the only men.



Ham.

O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!



Pol.

What treasure had he, my lord?



Ham.

Why--

   'One fair daughter, and no more,

   The which he loved passing well.'





Pol.

[Aside.] Still on my daughter.



Ham.

Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?



Pol.

If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I

love passing well.



Ham.

Nay, that follows not.



Pol.

What follows, then, my lord?



Ham.

Why--

   'As by lot, God wot,'

and then, you know,

   'It came to pass, as most like it was--'

The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look

where my abridgment comes.



[Enter four or five Players.]



You are welcome, masters; welcome, all:--I am glad to see thee

well.--welcome, good friends.--O, my old friend! Thy face is

valanc'd since I saw thee last; comest thou to beard me in

Denmark?--What, my young lady and mistress! By'r lady, your

ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the

altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like a piece of

uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the ring.--Masters, you are

all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at

anything we see: we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a

taste of your quality: come, a passionate speech.



I Play.

What speech, my lord?



Ham.

I heard thee speak me a speech once,--but it was never acted;

or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleased

not the million, 'twas caviare to the general; but it was,--as I

received it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in

the top of mine,--an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,

set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember, one said

there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,

nor no matter in the phrase that might indite the author of

affectation; but called it an honest method, as wholesome as

sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in it

I chiefly loved: 'twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it

especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter: if it live in

your memory, begin at this line;--let me see, let me see:--



The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast,--



it is not so:-- it begins with Pyrrhus:--



  'The rugged Pyrrhus,--he whose sable arms,

   Black as his purpose, did the night resemble

   When he lay couched in the ominous horse,--

   Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd

   With heraldry more dismal; head to foot

   Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd

   With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,

   Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,

   That lend a tyrannous and a damned light

   To their vile murders: roasted in wrath and fire,

   And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,

   With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus

   Old grandsire Priam seeks.'



So, proceed you.



Pol.

'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good

discretion.



I Play.

   Anon he finds him,

   Striking too short at Greeks: his antique sword,

   Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,

   Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,

   Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;

   But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword

   The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,

   Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top

   Stoops to his base; and with a hideous crash

   Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for lo! his sword,

   Which was declining on the milky head

   Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:

   So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood;

   And, like a neutral to his will and matter,

   Did nothing.

   But as we often see, against some storm,

   A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,

   The bold winds speechless, and the orb below

   As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder

   Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,

   A roused vengeance sets him new a-work;

   And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall

   On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,

   With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword

   Now falls on Priam.--

   Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,

   In general synod, take away her power;

   Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,

   And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,

   As low as to the fiends!


