Nurse. Madam, your mother craves a word with you.



  Rom. What is her mother?



  Nurse. Marry, bachelor,

    Her mother is the lady of the house.

    And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous.

    I nurs'd her daughter that you talk'd withal.

    I tell you, he that can lay hold of her

    Shall have the chinks.



  Rom. Is she a Capulet?

    O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.



  Ben. Away, be gone; the sport is at the best.



  Rom. Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.



  Cap. Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;

    We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.

    Is it e'en so? Why then, I thank you all.

    I thank you, honest gentlemen. Good night.

    More torches here! [Exeunt Maskers.] Come on then, let's to bed.

    Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late;

    I'll to my rest.

                              Exeunt [all but Juliet and Nurse].



  Jul. Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?



  Nurse. The son and heir of old Tiberio.



  Jul. What's he that now is going out of door?



  Nurse. Marry, that, I think, be young Petruchio.



  Jul. What's he that follows there, that would not dance?



  Nurse. I know not.



  Jul. Go ask his name.- If he be married,

    My grave is like to be my wedding bed.



  Nurse. His name is Romeo, and a Montague,

    The only son of your great enemy.



  Jul. My only love, sprung from my only hate!

    Too early seen unknown, and known too late!

    Prodigious birth of love it is to me

    That I must love a loathed enemy.



  Nurse. What's this? what's this?



  Jul. A rhyme I learnt even now

    Of one I danc'd withal.

                                     One calls within, 'Juliet.'



  Nurse. Anon, anon!

    Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.        Exeunt.









PROLOGUE



Enter Chorus.





  Chor. Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie,

    And young affection gapes to be his heir;

    That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,

    With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.

    Now Romeo is belov'd, and loves again,

    Alike bewitched by the charm of looks;

    But to his foe suppos'd he must complain,

    And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.

    Being held a foe, he may not have access

    To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear,

    And she as much in love, her means much less

    To meet her new beloved anywhere;

    But passion lends them power, time means, to meet,

    Temp'ring extremities with extreme sweet.

Exit.









ACT II. Scene I.

A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.



Enter Romeo alone.





  Rom. Can I go forward when my heart is here?

    Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.

                     [Climbs the wall and leaps down within it.]



                   Enter Benvolio with Mercutio.





  Ben. Romeo! my cousin Romeo! Romeo!



  Mer. He is wise,

    And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.



  Ben. He ran this way, and leapt this orchard wall.

    Call, good Mercutio.



  Mer. Nay, I'll conjure too.

    Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!

    Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh;

    Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied!

    Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove';

    Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,

    One nickname for her purblind son and heir,

    Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim

    When King Cophetua lov'd the beggar maid!

    He heareth not, he stirreth not, be moveth not;

    The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.

    I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes.

    By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,

    By her fine foot, straight leg, and quivering thigh,

    And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,

    That in thy likeness thou appear to us!



  Ben. An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.



  Mer. This cannot anger him. 'Twould anger him

    To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle

    Of some strange nature, letting it there stand

    Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.

    That were some spite; my invocation

    Is fair and honest: in his mistress' name,

    I conjure only but to raise up him.



  Ben. Come, he hath hid himself among these trees

    To be consorted with the humorous night.

    Blind is his love and best befits the dark.



  Mer. If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.

    Now will he sit under a medlar tree

    And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit

    As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.

    O, Romeo, that she were, O that she were

    An open et cetera, thou a pop'rin pear!

    Romeo, good night. I'll to my truckle-bed;

    This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.

    Come, shall we go?



  Ben. Go then, for 'tis in vainEnter Mercutio, Benvolio, and Men.





  Ben. I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire.

    The day is hot, the Capulets abroad.

    And if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl,

    For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.



  Mer. Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters

    the confines of a tavern, claps me his sword upon the table and

    says 'God send me no need of thee!' and by the operation of the

    second cup draws him on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.



  Ben. Am I like such a fellow?



  Mer. Come, come, thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in

    Italy; and as soon moved to be moody, and as soon moody to be

    moved.



  Ben. And what to?



  Mer. Nay, an there were two such, we should have none shortly,

    for one would kill the other. Thou! why, thou wilt quarrel with a

    man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard than thou hast.

    Thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no

    other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes. What eye but such an

    eye would spy out such a quarrel? Thy head is as full of quarrels

    as an egg is full of meat; and yet thy head hath been beaten as

    addle as an egg for quarrelling. Thou hast quarrell'd with a

    man for coughing in the street, because he hath wakened thy dog

    that hath lain asleep in the sun. Didst thou not fall out with a

    tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter, with

    another for tying his new shoes with an old riband? And yet thou wilt

    tutor me from quarrelling!



  Ben. An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man should

    buy the fee simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.



  Mer. The fee simple? O simple!



                       Enter Tybalt and others.





  Ben. By my head, here come the Capulets.



  Mer. By my heel, I care not.



  Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speak to them.

    Gentlemen, good den. A word with one of you.



  Mer. And but one word with one of us?

    Couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.



  Tyb. You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you will give me

    occasion.



  Mer. Could you not take some occasion without giving



  Tyb. Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo.



  Mer. Consort? What, dost thou make us minstrels? An thou make

    minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but discords. Here's my

    fiddlestick; here's that shall make you dance. Zounds, consort!



  Ben. We talk here in the public haunt of men.

    Either withdraw unto some private place

    And reason coldly of your grievances,

    Or else depart. Here all eyes gaze on us.



  Mer. Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze.

    I will not budge for no man's pleasure,



                        Enter Romeo.





  Tyb. Well, peace be with you, sir. Here comes my man.



  Mer. But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.

    Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower!

    Your worship in that sense may call him man.



  Tyb. Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford

    No better term than this: thou art a villain.



  Rom. Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee

    Doth much excuse the appertaining rage

    To such a greeting. Villain am I none.

    Therefore farewell. I see thou knowest me not.



  Tyb. Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries

    That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.



  Rom. I do protest I never injur'd thee,

    But love thee better than thou canst devise

    Till thou shalt know the reason of my love;

    And so good Capulet, which name I tender

    As dearly as mine own, be satisfied.



  Mer. O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!

    Alla stoccata carries it away.                      [Draws.]

    Tybalt, you ratcatcher, will you walk?



  Tyb. What wouldst thou have with me?



  Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine lives.

That I

    mean to make bold withal, and, as you shall use me hereafter,



    dry-beat the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out

    of his pitcher by the ears? Make haste, lest mine be about your

    ears ere it be out.


