  Des. What is the matter (Deere?)

  Othe. All's well, Sweeting:

Come away to bed. Sir for your hurts,

My selfe will be your Surgeon. Lead him off:

Iago, looke with care about the Towne,

And silence those whom this vil'd brawle distracted.

Come Desdemona, 'tis the Soldiers life,

To haue their Balmy slumbers wak'd with strife.

Enter.



  Iago. What are you hurt Lieutenant?

  Cas. I, past all Surgery



   Iago. Marry Heauen forbid



   Cas. Reputation, Reputation, Reputation: Oh I haue

lost my Reputation. I haue lost the immortall part of

myselfe, and what remaines is bestiall. My Reputation,

Iago, my Reputation



   Iago. As I am an honest man I had thought you had

receiued some bodily wound; there is more sence in that

then in Reputation. Reputation is an idle, and most false

imposition; oft got without merit, and lost without deseruing.

You haue lost no Reputation at all, vnlesse you

repute your selfe such a looser. What man, there are

more wayes to recouer the Generall againe. You are

but now cast in his moode, (a punishment more in policie,

then in malice) euen so as one would beate his offencelesse

dogge, to affright an Imperious Lyon. Sue to

him againe, and he's yours



   Cas. I will rather sue to be despis'd, then to deceiue

so good a Commander, with so slight, so drunken, and so

indiscreet an Officer. Drunke? And speake Parrat? And

squabble? Swagger? Sweare? And discourse Fustian

with ones owne shadow? Oh thou invisible spirit of

Wine, if thou hast no name to be knowne by, let vs call

thee Diuell



   Iago. What was he that you follow'd with your

Sword? What had he done to you?

  Cas. I know not



   Iago. Is't possible?

  Cas. I remember a masse of things, but nothing distinctly:

a Quarrell, but nothing wherefore. Oh, that

men should put an Enemie in their mouthes, to steale away

their Braines? that we should with ioy, pleasance,

reuell and applause, transforme our selues into Beasts



   Iago. Why? But you are now well enough: how

came you thus recouered?

  Cas. It hath pleas'd the diuell drunkennesse, to giue

place to the diuell wrath, one vnperfectnesse, shewes me

another to make me frankly despise my selfe



   Iago. Come, you are too seuere a Moraller. As the

Time, the Place, & the Condition of this Country stands

I could hartily wish this had not befalne: but since it is, as

it is, mend it for your owne good



   Cas. I will aske him for my Place againe, he shall tell

me, I am a drunkard: had I as many mouthes as Hydra,

such an answer would stop them all. To be now a sensible

man, by and by a Foole, and presently a Beast. Oh

strange! Euery inordinate cup is vnbless'd, and the Ingredient

is a diuell



   Iago. Come, come: good wine, is a good familiar

Creature, if it be well vs'd: exclaime no more against it.

And good Lieutenant, I thinke, you thinke I loue

you



   Cassio. I haue well approued it, Sir. I drunke?

  Iago. You, or any man liuing, may be drunke at a

time man. I tell you what you shall do: Our General's

Wife, is now the Generall. I may say so, in this respect,

for that he hath deuoted, and giuen vp himselfe to the

Contemplation, marke: and deuotement of her parts

and Graces. Confesse your selfe freely to her: Importune

her helpe to put you in your place againe. She is

of so free, so kinde, so apt, so blessed a disposition,

she holds it a vice in her goodnesse, not to do more

then she is requested. This broken ioynt betweene

you, and her husband, entreat her to splinter. And my

Fortunes against any lay worth naming, this cracke of

your Loue, shall grow stronger, then it was before



   Cassio. You aduise me well



   Iago. I protest in the sinceritie of Loue, and honest

kindnesse



   Cassio. I thinke it freely: and betimes in the morning,

I will beseech the vertuous Desdemona to vndertake

for me: I am desperate of my Fortunes if they check me



   Iago. You are in the right: good night Lieutenant, I

must to the Watch



   Cassio. Good night, honest Iago.



Exit Cassio.



  Iago. And what's he then,

That saies I play the Villaine?

When this aduise is free I giue, and honest,

Proball to thinking, and indeed the course

To win the Moore againe.

For 'tis most easie

Th' inclyning Desdemona to subdue

In any honest Suite. She's fram'd as fruitefull

As the free Elements. And then for her

To win the Moore, were to renownce his Baptisme,

All Seales, and Simbols of redeemed sin:

His Soule is so enfetter'd to her Loue,

That she may make, vnmake, do what she list,

Euen as her Appetite shall play the God,

With his weake Function. How am I then a Villaine,

To Counsell Cassio to this paralell course,

Directly to his good? Diuinitie of hell,

When diuels will the blackest sinnes put on,

They do suggest at first with heauenly shewes,

As I do now. For whiles this honest Foole

Plies Desdemona, to repaire his Fortune,

And she for him, pleades strongly to the Moore,

Ile powre this pestilence into his eare:

That she repeales him, for her bodies Lust,

And by how much she striues to do him good,

She shall vndo her Credite with the Moore.

So will I turne her vertue into pitch.

And out of her owne goodnesse make the Net,

That shall en-mash them all.

How now Rodorigo?

Enter Rodorigo.



  Rodorigo. I do follow heere in the Chace, not

like a Hound that hunts, but one that filles vp the

Crie. My Money is almost spent; I haue bin to night

exceedingly well Cudgell'd: And I thinke the issue

will bee, I shall haue so much experience for my paines;

And so, with no money at all, and a little more Wit, returne

againe to Venice



   Iago. How poore are they that haue not Patience?

What wound did euer heale but by degrees?

Thou know'st we worke by Wit, and not by Witchcraft

And Wit depends on dilatory time:

Dos't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee,

And thou by that small hurt hath casheer'd Cassio:

Though other things grow faire against the Sun,

Yet Fruites that blossome first, will first be ripe:

Content thy selfe, a-while. Introth 'tis Morning;

Pleasure, and Action, make the houres seeme short.

Retire thee, go where thou art Billited:

Away, I say, thou shalt know more heereafter:

Nay get thee gone.



Exit Roderigo.



Two things are to be done:

My Wife must moue for Cassio to her Mistris:

Ile set her on my selfe, a while, to draw the Moor apart,

And bring him iumpe, when he may Cassio finde

Soliciting his wife: I, that's the way:

Dull not Deuice, by coldnesse, and delay.

Enter.





Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.



Enter Cassio, Musitians, and Clowne.



  Cassio. Masters, play heere, I wil content your paines,

Something that's briefe: and bid, goodmorrow General



   Clo. Why Masters, haue your Instruments bin in Naples,

that they speake i'th' Nose thus?

  Mus. How Sir? how?

  Clo. Are these I pray you, winde Instruments?

  Mus. I marry are they sir



   Clo. Oh, thereby hangs a tale



   Mus. Whereby hangs a tale, sir?

  Clow. Marry sir, by many a winde Instrument that I

know. But Masters, heere's money for you: and the Generall

so likes your Musick, that he desires you for loues

sake to make no more noise with it



   Mus. Well Sir, we will not



   Clo. If you haue any Musicke that may not be heard,

too't againe. But (as they say) to heare Musicke, the Generall

do's not greatly care



   Mus. We haue none such, sir



   Clow. Then put vp your Pipes in your bagge, for Ile

away. Go, vanish into ayre, away.



Exit Mu.



  Cassio. Dost thou heare me, mine honest Friend?

  Clo. No, I heare not your honest Friend:

I heare you



   Cassio. Prythee keepe vp thy Quillets, ther's a poore

peece of Gold for thee: if the Gentlewoman that attends

the Generall be stirring, tell her, there's one Cassio entreats

her a little fauour of Speech. Wilt thou do this?

  Clo. She is stirring sir: if she will stirre hither, I shall

seeme to notifie vnto her.



Exit Clo.



Enter Iago.



In happy time, Iago



   Iago. You haue not bin a-bed then?

  Cassio. Why no: the day had broke before we parted.

I haue made bold (Iago) to send in to your wife:

My suite to her is, that she will to vertuous Desdemona

Procure me some accesse



   Iago. Ile send her to you presently:

And Ile deuise a meane to draw the Moore

Out of the way, that your conuerse and businesse

May be more free.



Exit



  Cassio. I humbly thanke you for't. I neuer knew

A Florentine more kinde, and honest.

Enter aemilia.



Aemil. Goodmorrow (good Lieutenant) I am sorrie

For your displeasure: but all will sure be well.

The Generall and his wife are talking of it,

And she speakes for you stoutly. The Moore replies,

That he you hurt is of great Fame in Cyprus,

And great Affinitie: and that in wholsome Wisedome

He might not but refuse you. But he protests he loues you

And needs no other Suitor, but his likings

To bring you in againe



   Cassio. Yet I beseech you,

If you thinke fit, or that it may be done,

Giue me aduantage of some breefe Discourse

With Desdemon alone.

Aemil. Pray you come in:

I will bestow you where you shall haue time

To speake your bosome freely



   Cassio. I am much bound to you.



Scoena Secunda.
