   Iago. Oh sweet England.

King Stephen was anda worthy Peere,

His Breeches cost him but a Crowne,

He held them Six pence all to deere,

With that he cal'd the Tailor Lowne:

He was a wight of high Renowne,

And thou art but of low degree:

'Tis Pride that pulls the Country downe,

And take thy awl'd Cloake about thee.

Some Wine hoa



   Cassio. Why this is a more exquisite Song then the other



   Iago. Will you heare't againe?

  Cas. No: for I hold him to be vnworthy of his Place,

that do's those things. Well: heau'ns aboue all: and

there be soules must be saued, and there be soules must

not be saued



   Iago. It's true, good Lieutenant



   Cas. For mine owne part, no offence to the Generall,

nor any man of qualitie: I hope to be saued



   Iago. And so do I too Lieutenant



   Cassio. I: (but by your leaue) not before me. The

Lieutenant is to be saued before the Ancient. Let's haue

no more of this: let's to our Affaires. Forgiue vs our

sinnes: Gentlemen let's looke to our businesse. Do not

thinke Gentlemen, I am drunke: this is my Ancient, this

is my right hand, and this is my left. I am not drunke

now: I can stand well enough, and I speake well enough



   Gent. Excellent well



   Cas. Why very well then: you must not thinke then,

that I am drunke.

Enter.



  Monta. To th' Platforme (Masters) come, let's set the


   Iago. You see this Fellow, that is gone before,

He's a Souldier, fit to stand by Caesar,

And giue direction. And do but see his vice,

'Tis to his vertue, a iust Equinox,

The one as long as th' other. 'Tis pittie of him:

I feare the trust Othello puts him in,

On some odde time of his infirmitie

Will shake this Island



   Mont. But is he often thus?

  Iago. 'Tis euermore his prologue to his sleepe,

He'le watch the Horologe a double Set,

If Drinke rocke not his Cradle



   Mont. It were well

The Generall were put in mind of it:

Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature

Prizes the vertue that appeares in Cassio,

And lookes not on his euills: is not this true?

Enter Rodorigo.



  Iago. How now Rodorigo?

I pray you after the Lieutenant, go



   Mon. And 'tis great pitty, that the Noble Moore

Should hazard such a Place, as his owne Second

With one of an ingraft Infirmitie,

It were an honest Action, to say so

To the Moore



   Iago. Not I, for this faire Island,

I do loue Cassio well: and would do much

To cure him of this euill, But hearke, what noise?

Enter Cassio pursuing Rodorigo.



  Cas. You Rogue: you Rascall



   Mon. What's the matter Lieutenant?

  Cas. A Knaue teach me my dutie? Ile beate the

Knaue in to a Twiggen-Bottle



   Rod. Beate me?

  Cas. Dost thou prate, Rogue?

  Mon. Nay, good Lieutenant:

I pray you Sir, hold your hand



   Cassio. Let me go (Sir)

Or Ile knocke you o're the Mazard



   Mon. Come, come: you're drunke



   Cassio. Drunke?

  Iago. Away I say: go out and cry a Mutinie.

Nay good Lieutenant. Alas Gentlemen:

Helpe hoa. Lieutenant. Sir Montano:

Helpe Masters. Heere's a goodly Watch indeed.

Who's that which rings the Bell: Diablo, hoa:

The Towne will rise. Fie, fie Lieutenant,

You'le be asham'd for euer.

Enter Othello, and Attendants.



  Othe. What is the matter heere?

  Mon. I bleed still, I am hurt to th' death. He dies



   Othe. Hold for your liues



   Iag. Hold hoa: Lieutenant, Sir Montano, Gentlemen:

Haue you forgot all place of sense and dutie?

Hold. The Generall speaks to you: hold for shame



   Oth. Why how now hoa? From whence ariseth this?

Are we turn'd Turkes? and to our selues do that

Which Heauen hath forbid the Ottamittes.

For Christian shame, put by this barbarous Brawle:

He that stirs next, to carue for his owne rage,

Holds his soule light: He dies vpon his Motion.

Silence that dreadfull Bell, it frights the Isle,

From her propriety. What is the matter, Masters?

Honest Iago, that lookes dead with greeuing,

Speake: who began this? On thy loue I charge thee?

  Iago. I do not know: Friends all, but now, euen now.

In Quarter, and in termes like Bride, and Groome

Deuesting them for Bed: and then, but now:

(As if some Planet had vnwitted men)

Swords out, and tilting one at others breastes,

In opposition bloody. I cannot speake

Any begining to this peeuish oddes.

And would, in Action glorious, I had lost

Those legges, that brought me to a part of it



   Othe. How comes it (Michaell) you are thus forgot?

  Cas. I pray you pardon me, I cannot speake



   Othe. Worthy Montano, you were wont to be ciuill:

The grauitie, and stillnesse of your youth

The world hath noted. And your name is great

In mouthes of wisest Censure. What's the matter

That you vnlace your reputation thus,

And spend your rich opinion, for the name

Of a night-brawler? Giue me answer to it



   Mon. Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger,

Your Officer Iago, can informe you,

While I spare speech which something now offends me.

Of all that I do know, nor know I ought

By me, that's said, or done amisse this night,

Vnlesse selfe-charitie be sometimes a vice,

And to defend our selues, it be a sinne

When violence assailes vs



   Othe. Now by Heauen,

My blood begins my safer Guides to rule,

And passion (hauing my best iudgement collied)

Assaies to leade the way. If I once stir,

Or do but lift this Arme, the best of you

Shall sinke in my rebuke. Giue me to know

How this foule Rout began: Who set it on,

And he that is approu'd in this offence,

Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,

Shall loose me. What in a Towne of warre,

Yet wilde, the peoples hearts brim-full of feare,

To Manage priuate, and domesticke Quarrell?

In night, and on the Court and Guard of safetie?

'Tis monstrous: Iago, who began't?

  Mon. If partially Affin'd, or league in office,

Thou dost deliuer more, or lesse then Truth,

Thou art no Souldier



   Iago. Touch me not so neere,

I had rather haue this tongue cut from my mouth,

Then it should do offence to Michaell Cassio.

Yet I perswade my selfe, to speake the truth

Shall nothing wrong him. This it is Generall:

Montano and my selfe being in speech,

There comes a Fellow, crying out for helpe,

And Cassio following him with determin'd Sword

To execute vpon him. Sir, this Gentleman,

Steppes in to Cassio, and entreats his pause:

My selfe, the crying Fellow did pursue,

Least by his clamour (as it so fell out)

The Towne might fall in fright. He, (swift of foote)

Out-ran my purpose: and I return'd then rather

For that I heard the clinke, and fall of Swords,

And Cassio high in oath: Which till to night

I nere might say before. When I came backe

(For this was briefe) I found them close together

At blow, and thrust, euen as againe they were

When you your selfe did part them.

More of this matter cannot I report,

But Men are Men: The best sometimes forget,

Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,

As men in rage strike those that wish them best,

Yet surely Cassio, I beleeue receiu'd

From him that fled, some strange Indignitie,

Which patience could not passe



   Othe. I know Iago

Thy honestie, and loue doth mince this matter,

Making it light to Cassio: Cassio, I loue thee,

But neuer more be Officer of mine.

Enter Desdemona attended.



Looke if my gentle Loue be not rais'd vp:

Ile make thee an example


