Capulet's house.



Enter Capulet's Wife, and Nurse.





  Wife. Nurse, where's my daughter? Call her forth to me.



  Nurse. Now, by my maidenhead at twelve year old,

    I bade her come. What, lamb! what ladybird!

    God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!



                         Enter Juliet.





  Jul. How now? Who calls?



  Nurse. Your mother.



  Jul. Madam, I am here.

    What is your will?



  Wife. This is the matter- Nurse, give leave awhile,

    We must talk in secret. Nurse, come back again;

    I have rememb'red me, thou's hear our counsel.

    Thou knowest my daughter's of a pretty age.



  Nurse. Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.



  Wife. She's not fourteen.



  Nurse. I'll lay fourteen of my teeth-

    And yet, to my teen be it spoken, I have but four-

    She is not fourteen. How long is it now

    To Lammastide?



  Wife. A fortnight and odd days.



  Nurse. Even or odd, of all days in the year,

    Come Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen.

    Susan and she (God rest all Christian souls!)

    Were of an age. Well, Susan is with God;

    She was too good for me. But, as I said,

    On Lammas Eve at night shall she be fourteen;

    That shall she, marry; I remember it well.

    'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;

    And she was wean'd (I never shall forget it),

    Of all the days of the year, upon that day;

    For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,

    Sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall.

    My lord and you were then at Mantua.

    Nay, I do bear a brain. But, as I said,

    When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple

    Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,

    To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!

    Shake, quoth the dovehouse! 'Twas no need, I trow,

    To bid me trudge.

    And since that time it is eleven years,

    For then she could stand high-lone; nay, by th' rood,

    She could have run and waddled all about;

    For even the day before, she broke her brow;

    And then my husband (God be with his soul!

    'A was a merry man) took up the child.

    'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?

    Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;

    Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidam,

    The pretty wretch left crying, and said 'Ay.'

    To see now how a jest shall come about!

    I warrant, an I should live a thousand yeas,

    I never should forget it. 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he,

    And, pretty fool, it stinted, and said 'Ay.'



  Wife. Enough of this. I pray thee hold thy peace.



  Nurse. Yes, madam. Yet I cannot choose but laugh

    To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'

    And yet, I warrant, it bad upon it brow

    A bump as big as a young cock'rel's stone;

    A perilous knock; and it cried bitterly.

    'Yea,' quoth my husband, 'fall'st upon thy face?

    Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;

    Wilt thou not, Jule?' It stinted, and said 'Ay.'



  Jul. And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.



  Nurse. Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!

    Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nurs'd.

    An I might live to see thee married once, I have my wish.



  Wife. Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme

    I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,

    How stands your disposition to be married?



  Jul. It is an honour that I dream not of.



  Nurse. An honour? Were not I thine only nurse,

    I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.



  Wife. Well, think of marriage now. Younger than you,

    Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,

    Are made already mothers. By my count,

    I was your mother much upon these years

    That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:

    The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.



  Nurse. A man, young lady! lady, such a man

    As all the world- why he's a man of wax.



  Wife. Verona's summer hath not such a flower.



  Nurse. Nay, he's a flower, in faith- a very flower.



  Wife. What say you? Can you love the gentleman?

    This night you shall behold him at our feast.

    Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,

    And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;

    Examine every married lineament,

    And see how one another lends content;

    And what obscur'd in this fair volume lies

    Find written in the margent of his eyes,

    This precious book of love, this unbound lover,

    To beautify him only lacks a cover.

    The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride

    For fair without the fair within to hide.

    That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,

    That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;

    So shall you share all that he doth possess,

    By having him making yourself no less.



  Nurse. No less? Nay, bigger! Women grow by men


 Cap. Welcome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes

    Unplagu'd with corns will have a bout with you.

    Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all

    Will now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,

    She I'll swear hath corns. Am I come near ye now?

    Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day

    That I have worn a visor and could tell

    A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,

    Such as would please. 'Tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone!

    You are welcome, gentlemen! Come, musicians, play.

    A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.

                                    Music plays, and they dance.

    More light, you knaves! and turn the tables up,

    And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.

    Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.

    Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet,

    For you and I are past our dancing days.

    How long is't now since last yourself and I

    Were in a mask?

  2. Cap. By'r Lady, thirty years.



  Cap. What, man? 'Tis not so much, 'tis not so much!

    'Tis since the nuptial of Lucentio,

    Come Pentecost as quickly as it will,

    Some five-and-twenty years, and then we mask'd.

  2. Cap. 'Tis more, 'tis more! His son is elder, sir;

    His son is thirty.



  Cap. Will you tell me that?

    His son was but a ward two years ago.



  Rom. [to a Servingman] What lady's that, which doth enrich the

    hand Of yonder knight?



  Serv. I know not, sir.



  Rom. O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!

    It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night

    Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear-

    Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!

    So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows

    As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.

    The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand

    And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.

    Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight!

    For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.



  Tyb. This, by his voice, should be a Montague.

    Fetch me my rapier, boy. What, dares the slave

    Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,

    To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?

    Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,

    To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.



  Cap. Why, how now, kinsman? Wherefore storm you so?



  Tyb. Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe;

    A villain, that is hither come in spite

    To scorn at our solemnity this night.



  Cap. Young Romeo is it?



  Tyb. 'Tis he, that villain Romeo.



  Cap. Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone.

    'A bears him like a portly gentleman,

    And, to say truth, Verona brags of him

    To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth.

    I would not for the wealth of all this town

    Here in my house do him disparagement.

    Therefore be patient, take no note of him.

    It is my will; the which if thou respect,

    Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,

    An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.



  Tyb. It fits when such a villain is a guest.

    I'll not endure him.



  Cap. He shall be endur'd.

    What, goodman boy? I say he shall. Go to!

    Am I the master here, or you? Go to!

    You'll not endure him? God shall mend my soul!

    You'll make a mutiny among my guests!

    You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!



  Tyb. Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.



  Cap. Go to, go to!

    You are a saucy boy. Is't so, indeed?

    This trick may chance to scathe you. I know what.

    You must contrary me! Marry, 'tis time.-

    Well said, my hearts!- You are a princox- go!

    Be quiet, or- More light, more light!- For shame!

    I'll make you quiet; what!- Cheerly, my hearts!



  Tyb. Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting

    Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.

    I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall,

    Now seeming sweet, convert to bitt'rest gall.          Exit.



  Rom. If I profane with my unworthiest hand

    This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:

    My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand

    To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.



  Jul. Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,

    Which mannerly devotion shows in this;

    For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,

    And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.



  Rom. Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?



  Jul. Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in pray'r.



  Rom. O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do!

    They pray; grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.



  Jul. Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.



  Rom. Then move not while my prayer's effect I take.

    Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd.  [Kisses her.]



  Jul. Then have my lips the sin that they have took.



  Rom. Sin from my lips? O trespass sweetly urg'd!

    Give me my sin again.                          [Kisses her.]



  Jul. You kiss by th' book.
