  Murth. We are resolu'd, my Lord



   Macb. Ile call vpon you straight: abide within,

It is concluded: Banquo, thy Soules flight,

If it finde Heauen, must finde it out to Night.



Exeunt.





Scena Secunda.



Enter Macbeths Lady, and a Seruant.



  Lady. Is Banquo gone from Court?

  Seruant. I, Madame, but returnes againe to Night



   Lady. Say to the King, I would attend his leysure,

For a few words



   Seruant. Madame, I will.

Enter.



  Lady. Nought's had, all's spent.

Where our desire is got without content:

'Tis safer, to be that which we destroy,

Then by destruction dwell in doubtfull ioy.

Enter Macbeth.



How now, my Lord, why doe you keepe alone?

Of sorryest Fancies your Companions making,

Vsing those Thoughts, which should indeed haue dy'd

With them they thinke on: things without all remedie

Should be without regard: what's done, is done



   Macb. We haue scorch'd the Snake, not kill'd it:

Shee'le close, and be her selfe, whilest our poore Mallice

Remaines in danger of her former Tooth.

But let the frame of things dis-ioynt,

Both the Worlds suffer,

Ere we will eate our Meale in feare, and sleepe

In the affliction of these terrible Dreames,

That shake vs Nightly: Better be with the dead,

Whom we, to gayne our peace, haue sent to peace,

Then on the torture of the Minde to lye

In restlesse extasie.

Duncane is in his Graue:

After Lifes fitfull Feuer, he sleepes well,

Treason ha's done his worst: nor Steele, nor Poyson,

Mallice domestique, forraine Leuie, nothing,

Can touch him further



   Lady. Come on:

Gentle my Lord, sleeke o're your rugged Lookes,

Be bright and Iouiall among your Guests to Night



   Macb. So shall I Loue, and so I pray be you:

Let your remembrance apply to Banquo,

Present him Eminence, both with Eye and Tongue:

Vnsafe the while, that wee must laue

Our Honors in these flattering streames,

And make our Faces Vizards to our Hearts,

Disguising what they are



   Lady. You must leaue this



   Macb. O, full of Scorpions is my Minde, deare Wife:

Thou know'st, that Banquo and his Fleans liues



   Lady. But in them, Natures Coppie's not eterne



   Macb. There's comfort yet, they are assaileable,

Then be thou iocund: ere the Bat hath flowne

His Cloyster'd flight, ere to black Heccats summons

The shard-borne Beetle, with his drowsie hums,

Hath rung Nights yawning Peale,

There shall be done a deed of dreadfull note



   Lady. What's to be done?

  Macb. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest Chuck,

Till thou applaud the deed: Come, seeling Night,

Skarfe vp the tender Eye of pittifull Day,

And with thy bloodie and inuisible Hand

Cancell and teare to pieces that great Bond,

Which keepes me pale. Light thickens,

And the Crow makes Wing toth' Rookie Wood:

Good things of Day begin to droope, and drowse,

Whiles Nights black Agents to their Prey's doe rowse.

Thou maruell'st at my words: but hold thee still,

Things bad begun, make strong themselues by ill:

So prythee goe with me.



Exeunt.





Scena Tertia.



Enter three Murtherers.



  1. But who did bid thee ioyne with vs?

  3. Macbeth



   2. He needes not our mistrust, since he deliuers

Our Offices, and what we haue to doe,

To the direction iust



   1. Then stand with vs:

The West yet glimmers with some streakes of Day.

Now spurres the lated Traueller apace,

To gayne the timely Inne, and neere approches

The subiect of our Watch



   3. Hearke, I heare Horses



   Banquo within. Giue vs a Light there, hoa



   2. Then 'tis hee:

The rest, that are within the note of expectation,

Alreadie are i'th' Court



   1. His Horses goe about



   3. Almost a mile: but he does vsually,

So all men doe, from hence toth' Pallace Gate

Make it their Walke.

Enter Banquo and Fleans, with a Torch.



  2. A Light, a Light



   3. 'Tis hee



   1. Stand too't



   Ban. It will be Rayne to Night



   1. Let it come downe



   Ban. O, Trecherie!

Flye good Fleans, flye, flye, flye,

Thou may'st reuenge. O Slaue!

  3. Who did strike out the Light?

  1. Was't not the way?

  3. There's but one downe: the Sonne is fled



   2. We haue lost

Best halfe of our Affaire



   1. Well, let's away, and say how much is done.



Exeunt.





Scaena Quarta.



Banquet prepar'd. Enter Macbeth, Lady, Rosse, Lenox, Lords, and

Attendants.



  Macb. You know your owne degrees, sit downe:

At first and last, the hearty welcome



   Lords. Thankes to your Maiesty



   Macb. Our selfe will mingle with Society,

And play the humble Host:

Our Hostesse keepes her State, but in best time

We will require her welcome



   La. Pronounce it for me Sir, to all our Friends,

For my heart speakes, they are welcome.

Enter first Murtherer.



  Macb. See they encounter thee with their harts thanks

Both sides are euen: heere Ile sit i'th' mid'st,

Be large in mirth, anon wee'l drinke a Measure

The Table round. There's blood vpon thy face



   Mur. 'Tis Banquo's then



   Macb. 'Tis better thee without, then he within.

Is he dispatch'd?

  Mur. My Lord his throat is cut, that I did for him



   Mac. Thou art the best o'th' Cut-throats,

Yet hee's good that did the like for Fleans:

If thou did'st it, thou art the Non-pareill



   Mur. Most Royall Sir

Fleans is scap'd



   Macb. Then comes my Fit againe:

I had else beene perfect;

Whole as the Marble, founded as the Rocke,

As broad, and generall, as the casing Ayre:

But now I am cabin'd, crib'd, confin'd, bound in

To sawcy doubts, and feares. But Banquo's safe?

  Mur. I, my good Lord: safe in a ditch he bides,

With twenty trenched gashes on his head;

The least a Death to Nature



   Macb. Thankes for that:

There the growne Serpent lyes, the worme that's fled

Hath Nature that in time will Venom breed,

No teeth for th' present. Get thee gone, to morrow

Wee'l heare our selues againe.



Exit Murderer.



  Lady. My Royall Lord,

You do not giue the Cheere, the Feast is sold

That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a making:

'Tis giuen, with welcome: to feede were best at home:

From thence, the sawce to meate is Ceremony,

Meeting were bare without it.

Enter the Ghost of Banquo, and sits in Macbeths place.



  Macb. Sweet Remembrancer:

Now good digestion waite on Appetite,

And health on both



   Lenox. May't please your Highnesse sit



   Macb. Here had we now our Countries Honor, roof'd,

Were the grac'd person of our Banquo present:

Who, may I rather challenge for vnkindnesse,

Then pitty for Mischance



   Rosse. His absence (Sir)

Layes blame vpon his promise. Pleas't your Highnesse

To grace vs with your Royall Company?

  Macb. The Table's full



   Lenox. Heere is a place reseru'd Sir



   Macb. Where?

  Lenox. Heere my good Lord.

What is't that moues your Highnesse?

  Macb. Which of you haue done this?

  Lords. What, my good Lord?

  Macb. Thou canst not say I did it: neuer shake

Thy goary lockes at me



   Rosse. Gentlemen rise, his Highnesse is not well



   Lady. Sit worthy Friends: my Lord is often thus,

And hath beene from his youth. Pray you keepe Seat,

The fit is momentary, vpon a thought

He will againe be well. If much you note him

You shall offend him, and extend his Passion,

Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?

  Macb. I, and a bold one, that dare looke on that

Which might appall the Diuell



   La. O proper stuffe:

This is the very painting of your feare:

This is the Ayre-drawne-Dagger which you said

Led you to Duncan. O, these flawes and starts

(Impostors to true feare) would well become

A womans story, at a Winters fire

Authoriz'd by her Grandam: shame it selfe,

Why do you make such faces? When all's done

You looke but on a stoole



   Macb. Prythee see there:

Behold, looke, loe, how say you:

Why what care I, if thou canst nod, speake too.

If Charnell houses, and our Graues must send

Those that we bury, backe; our Monuments

Shall be the Mawes of Kytes



   La. What? quite vnmann'd in folly



   Macb. If I stand heere, I saw him



   La. Fie for shame



   Macb. Blood hath bene shed ere now, i'th' olden time

Ere humane Statute purg'd the gentle Weale:

I, and since too, Murthers haue bene perform'd

Too terrible for the eare. The times has bene,

That when the Braines were out, the man would dye,

And there an end: But now they rise againe

With twenty mortall murthers on their crownes,

And push vs from our stooles. This is more strange

Then such a murther is



   La. My worthy Lord

Your Noble Friends do lacke you



   Macb. I do forget:

Do not muse at me my most worthy Friends,

I haue a strange infirmity, which is nothing

To those that know me. Come, loue and health to all,

Then Ile sit downe: Giue me some Wine, fill full:

Enter Ghost.



I drinke to th' generall ioy o'th' whole Table,

And to our deere Friend Banquo, whom we misse:

Would he were heere: to all, and him we thirst,

And all to all



   Lords. Our duties, and the pledge



   Mac. Auant, & quit my sight, let the earth hide thee:

Thy bones are marrowlesse, thy blood is cold:

Thou hast no speculation in those eyes

Which thou dost glare with



   La. Thinke of this good Peeres

But as a thing of Custome: 'Tis no other,

Onely it spoyles the pleasure of the time



   Macb. What man dare, I dare:

Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare,

The arm'd Rhinoceros, or th' Hircan Tiger,

Take any shape but that, and my firme Nerues

Shall neuer tremble. Or be aliue againe,

And dare me to the Desart with thy Sword:

If trembling I inhabit then, protest mee

The Baby of a Girle. Hence horrible shadow,

Vnreall mock'ry hence. Why so, being gone

I am a man againe: pray you sit still



   La. You haue displac'd the mirth,

Broke the good meeting, with most admir'd disorder



   Macb. Can such things be,

And ouercome vs like a Summers Clowd,

Without our speciall wonder? You make me strange

Euen to the disposition that I owe,

When now I thinke you can behold such sights,

And keepe the naturall Rubie of your Cheekes,

When mine is blanch'd with feare



   Rosse. What sights, my Lord?

  La. I pray you speake not: he growes worse & worse

Question enrages him: at once, goodnight.

Stand not vpon the order of your going,

But go at once



   Len. Good night, and better health

Attend his Maiesty



   La. A kinde goodnight to all.



Exit Lords.



  Macb. It will haue blood they say:

Blood will haue Blood:

Stones haue beene knowne to moue, & Trees to speake:

Augures, and vnderstood Relations, haue

By Maggot Pyes, & Choughes, & Rookes brought forth

The secret'st man of Blood. What is the night?

  La. Almost at oddes with morning, which is which



   Macb. How say'st thou that Macduff denies his person

At our great bidding



   La. Did you send to him Sir?

  Macb. I heare it by the way: But I will send:

There's not a one of them but in his house

I keepe a Seruant Feed. I will to morrow

(And betimes I will) to the weyard Sisters.

More shall they speake: for now I am bent to know

By the worst meanes, the worst, for mine owne good,

All causes shall giue way. I am in blood

Stept in so farre, that should I wade no more,

Returning were as tedious as go ore:

Strange things I haue in head, that will to hand,

Which must be acted, ere they may be scand



   La. You lacke the season of all Natures, sleepe



   Macb. Come, wee'l to sleepe: My strange & self-abuse

Is the initiate feare, that wants hard vse:

We are yet but yong indeed.



Exeunt.





Scena Quinta.



Thunder. Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecat.



  1. Why how now Hecat, you looke angerly?

  Hec. Haue I not reason (Beldams) as you are?

Sawcy, and ouer-bold, how did you dare

To Trade, and Trafficke with Macbeth,

In Riddles, and Affaires of death;

And I the Mistris of your Charmes,

The close contriuer of all harmes,

Was neuer call'd to beare my part,

Or shew the glory of our Art?

And which is worse, all you haue done

Hath bene but for a wayward Sonne,

Spightfull, and wrathfull, who (as others do)

Loues for his owne ends, not for you.

But make amends now: Get you gon,

And at the pit of Acheron

Meete me i'th' Morning: thither he

Will come, to know his Destinie.

Your Vessels, and your Spels prouide,

Your Charmes, and euery thing beside;

I am for th' Ayre: This night Ile spend

Vnto a dismall, and a Fatall end.

Great businesse must be wrought ere Noone.

Vpon the Corner of the Moone

There hangs a vap'rous drop, profound,

Ile catch it ere it come to ground;

And that distill'd by Magicke slights,

Shall raise such Artificiall Sprights,

As by the strength of their illusion,

Shall draw him on to his Confusion.

He shall spurne Fate, scorne Death, and beare

His hopes 'boue Wisedome, Grace, and Feare:

And you all know, Security

Is Mortals cheefest Enemie.



Musicke, and a Song.



Hearke, I am call'd: my little Spirit see

Sits in Foggy cloud, and stayes for me.



Sing within. Come away, come away, &c.



  1 Come, let's make hast, shee'l soone be

Backe againe.



Exeunt.





Scaena Sexta.



Enter Lenox, and another Lord.



  Lenox. My former Speeches,

Haue but hit your Thoughts

Which can interpret farther: Onely I say

Things haue bin strangely borne. The gracious Duncan

Was pittied of Macbeth: marry he was dead:

And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,

Whom you may say (if't please you) Fleans kill'd,

For Fleans fled: Men must not walke too late.

Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous

It was for Malcolme, and for Donalbane

To kill their gracious Father? Damned Fact,

How it did greeue Macbeth? Did he not straight

In pious rage, the two delinquents teare,

That were the Slaues of drinke, and thralles of sleepe?

Was not that Nobly done? I, and wisely too:

For 'twould haue anger'd any heart aliue

To heare the men deny't. So that I say,

He ha's borne all things well, and I do thinke,

That had he Duncans Sonnes vnder his Key,

(As, and't please Heauen he shall not) they should finde

What 'twere to kill a Father: So should Fleans.

But peace; for from broad words, and cause he fayl'd

His presence at the Tyrants Feast, I heare

Macduffe liues in disgrace. Sir, can you tell

Where he bestowes himselfe?

  Lord. The Sonnes of Duncane

(From whom this Tyrant holds the due of Birth)

Liues in the English Court, and is receyu'd

Of the most Pious Edward, with such grace,

That the maleuolence of Fortune, nothing

Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduffe

Is gone, to pray the Holy King, vpon his ayd

To wake Northumberland, and warlike Seyward,

That by the helpe of these (with him aboue)

To ratifie the Worke) we may againe

Giue to our Tables meate, sleepe to our Nights:

Free from our Feasts, and Banquets bloody kniues;

Do faithfull Homage, and receiue free Honors,

All which we pine for now. And this report

Hath so exasperate their King, that hee

Prepares for some attempt of Warre



   Len. Sent he to Macduffe?

  Lord. He did: and with an absolute Sir, not I

The clowdy Messenger turnes me his backe,

And hums; as who should say, you'l rue the time

That clogges me with this Answer



   Lenox. And that well might

Aduise him to a Caution, t' hold what distance

His wisedome can prouide. Some holy Angell

Flye to the Court of England, and vnfold

His Message ere he come, that a swift blessing

May soone returne to this our suffering Country,

Vnder a hand accurs'd



   Lord. Ile send my Prayers with him.



Exeunt.



Actus Quartus. Scena Prima.



Thunder. Enter the three Witches.



  1 Thrice the brinded Cat hath mew'd



   2 Thrice, and once the Hedge-Pigge whin'd



   3 Harpier cries, 'tis time, 'tis time



   1 Round about the Caldron go:

In the poysond Entrailes throw

Toad, that vnder cold stone,

Dayes and Nights, ha's thirty one:

Sweltred Venom sleeping got,

Boyle thou first i'th' charmed pot



   All. Double, double, toile and trouble;

Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble



   2 Fillet of a Fenny Snake,

In the Cauldron boyle and bake:

Eye of Newt, and Toe of Frogge,

Wooll of Bat, and Tongue of Dogge:

Adders Forke, and Blinde-wormes Sting,

Lizards legge, and Howlets wing:

For a Charme of powrefull trouble,

Like a Hell-broth, boyle and bubble



   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,

Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble



   3 Scale of Dragon, Tooth of Wolfe,

Witches Mummey, Maw, and Gulfe

Of the rauin'd salt Sea sharke:

Roote of Hemlocke, digg'd i'th' darke:

Liuer of Blaspheming Iew,

Gall of Goate, and Slippes of Yew,

Sliuer'd in the Moones Ecclipse:

Nose of Turke, and Tartars lips:

Finger of Birth-strangled Babe,

Ditch-deliuer'd by a Drab,

Make the Grewell thicke, and slab.

Adde thereto a Tigers Chawdron,

For th' Ingredience of our Cawdron



   All. Double, double, toyle and trouble,

Fire burne, and Cauldron bubble



   2 Coole it with a Baboones blood,

Then the Charme is firme and good.

Enter Hecat, and the other three Witches.


