Ham.

'The mobled queen'?



Pol.

That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.



I Play.

   Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames

   With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head

   Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,

   About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,

   A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;--

   Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,

   'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd:

   But if the gods themselves did see her then,

   When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport

   In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,

   The instant burst of clamour that she made,--

   Unless things mortal move them not at all,--

   Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,

   And passion in the gods.



Pol.

Look, whether he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's

eyes.--Pray you, no more!



Ham.

'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.--

Good my lord, will you see the players well bestowed? Do you

hear? Let them be well used; for they are the abstracts and brief

chronicles of the time; after your death you were better have a

bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.



Pol.

My lord, I will use them according to their desert.



Ham.

Odd's bodikin, man, better: use every man after his

desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own

honour and dignity: the less they deserve, the more merit is in

your bounty. Take them in.



Pol.

Come, sirs.



Ham.

Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.




Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murder of

Gonzago'?



I Play.

Ay, my lord.



Ham.

We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a

speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and

insert in't? could you not?



I Play.

Ay, my lord.



Ham.

Very well.--Follow that lord; and look you mock him not.



[Exit First Player.]



--My good friends [to Ros. and Guild.], I'll leave you till

night: you are welcome to Elsinore.



Ros.

Good my lord!

Ham.

Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!

Now I am alone.

O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!

Is it not monstrous that this player here,

But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,

Could force his soul so to his own conceit

That from her working all his visage wan'd;

Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,

A broken voice, and his whole function suiting

With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!

For Hecuba?

What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,

That he should weep for her? What would he do,

Had he the motive and the cue for passion

That I have? He would drown the stage with tears

And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;

Make mad the guilty, and appal the free;

Confound the ignorant, and amaze, indeed,

The very faculties of eyes and ears.

Yet I,

A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,

Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,

And can say nothing; no, not for a king

Upon whose property and most dear life

A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?

Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?

Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?

Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat

As deep as to the lungs? who does me this, ha?

'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be

But I am pigeon-liver'd, and lack gall

To make oppression bitter; or ere this

I should have fatted all the region kites

With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!

Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!

O, vengeance!

Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,

That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,

Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,

Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words

And fall a-cursing like a very drab,

A scullion!

Fie upon't! foh!--About, my brain! I have heard

That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,

Have by the very cunning of the scene

Been struck so to the soul that presently

They have proclaim'd their malefactions;

For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak

With most miraculous organ, I'll have these players

Play something like the murder of my father

Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;

I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,

I know my course. The spirit that I have seen

May be the devil: and the devil hath power

To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps

Out of my weakness and my melancholy,--

As he is very potent with such spirits,--

Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds

More relative than this.--the play's the thing

Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.



King.

Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;

For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,

That he, as 'twere by accident, may here

Affront Ophelia:

Her father and myself,--lawful espials,--

Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,

We may of their encounter frankly judge;

And gather by him, as he is behav'd,

If't be the affliction of his love or no

That thus he suffers for.



Queen.

I shall obey you:--

And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish

That your good beauties be the happy cause

Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues

Will bring him to his wonted way again,

To both your honours.



Oph.

Madam, I wish it may.



[Exit Queen.]



Pol.

Ophelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you,

We will bestow ourselves.--[To Ophelia.] Read on this book;

That show of such an exercise may colour

Your loneliness.--We are oft to blame in this,--

'Tis too much prov'd,--that with devotion's visage

And pious action we do sugar o'er

The Devil himself.



King.

[Aside.] O, 'tis too true!

How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!

The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,

Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it

Than is my deed to my most painted word:

O heavy burden!



Pol.

I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.



[Exeunt King and Polonius.]



[Enter Hamlet.]



Ham.

To be, or not to be,--that is the question:--

Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer

The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune

Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,

And by opposing end them?--To die,--to sleep,--

No more; and by a sleep to say we end

The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks

That flesh is heir to,--'tis a consummation

Devoutly to be wish'd. To die,--to sleep;--

To sleep! perchance to dream:--ay, there's the rub;

For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,

When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,

Must give us pause: there's the respect

That makes calamity of so long life;

For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,

The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,

The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,

The insolence of office, and the spurns

That patient merit of the unworthy takes,

When he himself might his quietus make

With a bare bodkin? who would these fardels bear,

To grunt and sweat under a weary life,

But that the dread of something after death,--

The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn

No traveller returns,--puzzles the will,

And makes us rather bear those ills we have

Than fly to others that we know not of?

Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;

And thus the native hue of resolution

Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought;

And enterprises of great pith and moment,

With this regard, their currents turn awry,

And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!

The fair Ophelia!--Nymph, in thy orisons

Be all my sins remember'd.



Oph.

Good my lord,

How does your honour for this many a day?



Ham.

I humbly thank you; well, well, well.



Oph.

My lord, I have remembrances of yours

That I have longed long to re-deliver.

I pray you, now receive them.



Ham.

No, not I;

I never gave you aught.



Oph.

My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;

And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd

As made the things more rich; their perfume lost,

Take these again; for to the noble mind

Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.

There, my lord.



Ham.

Ha, ha! are you honest?



Oph.

My lord?



Ham.

Are you fair?



Oph.

What means your lordship?



Ham.

That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no

discourse to your beauty.



Oph.

Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?



Ham.

Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform

honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can

translate beauty into his likeness: this was sometime a paradox,

but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.



Oph.

Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.



Ham.

You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so

inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it: I loved you

not.



Oph.

I was the more deceived.



Ham.

Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a breeder of

sinners? I am myself indifferent honest; but yet I could accuse

me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me:

I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my

beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give

them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I

do crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves, all;

believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your

father?



Oph.

At home, my lord.



Ham.

Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool

nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.



Oph.

O, help him, you sweet heavens!



Ham.

If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry,--

be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape

calumny. Get thee to a nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt

needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what

monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.

Farewell.



Oph.

O heavenly powers, restore him!



Ham.

I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God hath

given you one face, and you make yourselves another: you jig, you

amble, and you lisp, and nickname God's creatures, and make your

wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath made

me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages: those that are

married already, all but one, shall live; the rest shall keep as

they are. To a nunnery, go.


