Scena Quinta.



Enter Macbeths Wife alone with a Letter.



  Lady. They met me in the day of successe: and I haue

learn'd by the perfect'st report, they haue more in them, then

mortall knowledge. When I burnt in desire to question them

further, they made themselues Ayre, into which they vanish'd.

Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came Missiues from

the King, who all-hail'd me Thane of Cawdor, by which Title

before, these weyward Sisters saluted me, and referr'd me to

the comming on of time, with haile King that shalt be. This

haue I thought good to deliuer thee (my dearest Partner of

Greatnesse) that thou might'st not loose the dues of reioycing

by being ignorant of what Greatnesse is promis'd thee. Lay

it to thy heart and farewell.

Glamys thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be

What thou art promis'd: yet doe I feare thy Nature,

It is too full o'th' Milke of humane kindnesse,

To catch the neerest way. Thou would'st be great,

Art not without Ambition, but without

The illnesse should attend it. What thou would'st highly,

That would'st thou holily: would'st not play false,

And yet would'st wrongly winne.

Thould'st haue, great Glamys, that which cryes,

Thus thou must doe, if thou haue it;

And that which rather thou do'st feare to doe,

Then wishest should be vndone. High thee hither,

That I may powre my Spirits in thine Eare,

And chastise with the valour of my Tongue

All that impeides thee from the Golden Round,

Which Fate and Metaphysicall ayde doth seeme

To haue thee crown'd withall.

Enter Messenger.



What is your tidings?

  Mess. The King comes here to Night



   Lady. Thou'rt mad to say it.

Is not thy Master with him? who, wer't so,

Would haue inform'd for preparation



   Mess. So please you, it is true: our Thane is comming:

One of my fellowes had the speed of him;

Who almost dead for breath, had scarcely more

Then would make vp his Message



   Lady. Giue him tending,

He brings great newes,



Exit Messenger.



The Rauen himselfe is hoarse,

That croakes the fatall entrance of Duncan

Vnder my Battlements. Come you Spirits,

That tend on mortall thoughts, vnsex me here,

And fill me from the Crowne to the Toe, top-full

Of direst Crueltie: make thick my blood,

Stop vp th' accesse, and passage to Remorse,

That no compunctious visitings of Nature

Shake my fell purpose, nor keepe peace betweene

Th' effect, and hit. Come to my Womans Brests,

And take my Milke for Gall, you murth'ring Ministers,

Where-euer, in your sightlesse substances,

You wait on Natures Mischiefe. Come thick Night,

And pall thee in the dunnest smoake of Hell,



That my keene Knife see not the Wound it makes,

Nor Heauen peepe through the Blanket of the darke,

To cry, hold, hold.

Enter Macbeth.



Great Glamys, worthy Cawdor,

Greater then both, by the all-haile hereafter,

Thy Letters haue transported me beyond

This ignorant present, and I feele now

The future in the instant



   Macb. My dearest Loue,

Duncan comes here to Night



   Lady. And when goes hence?

  Macb. To morrow, as he purposes



   Lady. O neuer,

Shall Sunne that Morrow see.

Your Face, my Thane, is as a Booke, where men

May reade strange matters, to beguile the time.

Looke like the time, beare welcome in your Eye,

Your Hand, your Tongue: looke like th' innocent flower,

But be the Serpent vnder't. He that's comming,

Must be prouided for: and you shall put

This Nights great Businesse into my dispatch,

Which shall to all our Nights, and Dayes to come,

Giue solely soueraigne sway, and Masterdome



   Macb. We will speake further,

  Lady. Onely looke vp cleare:

To alter fauor, euer is to feare:

Leaue all the rest to me.



Exeunt.





Scena Sexta.



Hoboyes, and Torches. Enter King, Malcolme, Donalbaine,

Banquo, Lenox,

Macduff, Rosse, Angus, and Attendants.



  King. This Castle hath a pleasant seat,

The ayre nimbly and sweetly recommends it selfe

Vnto our gentle sences



   Banq. This Guest of Summer,

The Temple-haunting Barlet does approue,

By his loued Mansonry, that the Heauens breath

Smells wooingly here: no Iutty frieze,

Buttrice, nor Coigne of Vantage, but this Bird

Hath made his pendant Bed, and procreant Cradle,

Where they must breed, and haunt: I haue obseru'd

The ayre is delicate.

Enter Lady.



  King. See, see our honor'd Hostesse:

The Loue that followes vs, sometime is our trouble,

Which still we thanke as Loue. Herein I teach you,

How you shall bid God-eyld vs for your paines,

And thanke vs for your trouble



   Lady. All our seruice,

In euery point twice done, and then done double,

Were poore, and single Businesse, to contend

Against those Honors deepe, and broad,

Wherewith your Maiestie loades our House:

For those of old, and the late Dignities,

Heap'd vp to them, we rest your Ermites



   King. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?

We courst him at the heeles, and had a purpose

To be his Purueyor: But he rides well,

And his great Loue (sharpe as his Spurre) hath holp him

To his home before vs: Faire and Noble Hostesse

We are your guest to night



   La. Your Seruants euer,

Haue theirs, themselues, and what is theirs in compt,

To make their Audit at your Highnesse pleasure,

Still to returne your owne



   King. Giue me your hand:

Conduct me to mine Host we loue him highly,

And shall continue, our Graces towards him.

By your leaue Hostesse.



Exeunt.



Scena Septima.



Hoboyes. Torches. Enter a Sewer, and diuers Seruants with Dishes

and

Seruice ouer the Stage. Then enter Macbeth



   Macb. If it were done, when 'tis done, then 'twer well,

It were done quickly: If th' Assassination

Could trammell vp the Consequence, and catch

With his surcease, Successe: that but this blow

Might be the be all, and the end all. Heere,

But heere, vpon this Banke and Schoole of time,

Wee'ld iumpe the life to come. But in these Cases,

We still haue iudgement heere, that we but teach

Bloody Instructions, which being taught, returne

To plague th' Inuenter, this euen-handed Iustice

Commends th' Ingredience of our poyson'd Challice

To our owne lips. Hee's heere in double trust;

First, as I am his Kinsman, and his Subiect,

Strong both against the Deed: Then, as his Host,

Who should against his Murtherer shut the doore,

Not beare the knife my selfe. Besides, this Duncane

Hath borne his Faculties so meeke; hath bin

So cleere in his great Office, that his Vertues

Will pleade like Angels, Trumpet-tongu'd against

The deepe damnation of his taking off:

And Pitty, like a naked New-borne-Babe,

Striding the blast, or Heauens Cherubin, hors'd

Vpon the sightlesse Curriors of the Ayre,

Shall blow the horrid deed in euery eye,

That teares shall drowne the winde. I haue no Spurre

To pricke the sides of my intent, but onely

Vaulting Ambition, which ore-leapes it selfe,

And falles on th' other.

Enter Lady.



How now? What Newes?

  La. He has almost supt: why haue you left the chamber?

  Mac. Hath he ask'd for me?

  La. Know you not, he ha's?

  Mac. We will proceed no further in this Businesse:

He hath Honour'd me of late, and I haue bought

Golden Opinions from all sorts of people,

Which would be worne now in their newest glosse,

Not cast aside so soone



   La. Was the hope drunke,

Wherein you drest your selfe? Hath it slept since?

And wakes it now to looke so greene, and pale,

At what it did so freely? From this time,

Such I account thy loue. Art thou affear'd

To be the same in thine owne Act, and Valour,

As thou art in desire? Would'st thou haue that

Which thou esteem'st the Ornament of Life,

And liue a Coward in thine owne Esteeme?

Letting I dare not, wait vpon I would,

Like the poore Cat i'th' Addage



   Macb. Prythee peace:

I dare do all that may become a man,

Who dares do more, is none



   La. What Beast was't then

That made you breake this enterprize to me?

When you durst do it, then you were a man:

And to be more then what you were, you would

Be so much more the man. Nor time, nor place

Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:

They haue made themselues, and that their fitnesse now

Do's vnmake you. I haue giuen Sucke, and know

How tender 'tis to loue the Babe that milkes me,

I would, while it was smyling in my Face,

Haue pluckt my Nipple from his Bonelesse Gummes,

And dasht the Braines out, had I so sworne

As you haue done to this



   Macb. If we should faile?

  Lady. We faile?

But screw your courage to the sticking place,

And wee'le not fayle: when Duncan is asleepe,

(Whereto the rather shall his dayes hard Iourney

Soundly inuite him) his two Chamberlaines

Will I with Wine, and Wassell, so conuince,

That Memorie, the Warder of the Braine,

Shall be a Fume, and the Receit of Reason

A Lymbeck onely: when in Swinish sleepe,

Their drenched Natures lyes as in a Death,

What cannot you and I performe vpon

Th' vnguarded Duncan? What not put vpon

His spungie Officers? who shall beare the guilt

Of our great quell



   Macb. Bring forth Men-Children onely:

For thy vndaunted Mettle should compose

Nothing but Males. Will it not be receiu'd,

When we haue mark'd with blood those sleepie two

Of his owne Chamber, and vs'd their very Daggers,

That they haue don't?

  Lady. Who dares receiue it other,

As we shall make our Griefes and Clamor rore,

Vpon his Death?

  Macb. I am settled, and bend vp

Each corporall Agent to this terrible Feat.

Away, and mock the time with fairest show,

False Face must hide what the false Heart doth know.

 Banq. And she goes downe at Twelue



   Fleance. I take't, 'tis later, Sir



   Banq. Hold, take my Sword:

There's Husbandry in Heauen,

Their Candles are all out: take thee that too.

A heauie Summons lyes like Lead vpon me,

And yet I would not sleepe:

Mercifull Powers, restraine in me the cursed thoughts

That Nature giues way to in repose.

Enter Macbeth, and a Seruant with a Torch.



Giue me my Sword: who's there?

  Macb. A Friend



   Banq. What Sir, not yet at rest? the King's a bed.

He hath beene in vnusuall Pleasure,

And sent forth great Largesse to your Offices.

This Diamond he greetes your Wife withall,

By the name of most kind Hostesse,

And shut vp in measurelesse content



   Mac. Being vnprepar'd,

Our will became the seruant to defect,

Which else should free haue wrought



   Banq. All's well.

I dreamt last Night of the three weyward Sisters:

To you they haue shew'd some truth



   Macb. I thinke not of them:

Yet when we can entreat an houre to serue,

We would spend it in some words vpon that Businesse,

If you would graunt the time



   Banq. At your kind'st leysure



   Macb. If you shall cleaue to my consent,

When 'tis, it shall make Honor for you



   Banq. So I lose none,

In seeking to augment it, but still keepe

My Bosome franchis'd, and Allegeance cleare,

I shall be counsail'd



   Macb. Good repose the while



   Banq. Thankes Sir: the like to you.



Exit Banquo.



  Macb. Goe bid thy Mistresse, when my drinke is ready,

She strike vpon the Bell. Get thee to bed.

Enter.



Is this a Dagger, which I see before me,

The Handle toward my Hand? Come, let me clutch thee:

I haue thee not, and yet I see thee still.

Art thou not fatall Vision, sensible

To feeling, as to sight? or art thou but

A Dagger of the Minde, a false Creation,

Proceeding from the heat-oppressed Braine?

I see thee yet, in forme as palpable,

As this which now I draw.

Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,

And such an Instrument I was to vse.

Mine Eyes are made the fooles o'th' other Sences,

Or else worth all the rest: I see thee still;

And on thy Blade, and Dudgeon, Gouts of Blood,

Which was not so before. There's no such thing:

It is the bloody Businesse, which informes

Thus to mine Eyes. Now o're the one halfe World

Nature seemes dead, and wicked Dreames abuse

The Curtain'd sleepe: Witchcraft celebrates

Pale Heccats Offrings: and wither'd Murther,

Alarum'd by his Centinell, the Wolfe,

Whose howle's his Watch, thus with his stealthy pace,

With Tarquins rauishing sides, towards his designe

Moues like a Ghost. Thou sowre and firme-set Earth

Heare not my steps, which they may walke, for feare

Thy very stones prate of my where-about,

And take the present horror from the time,

Which now sutes with it. Whiles I threat, he liues:

Words to the heat of deedes too cold breath giues.



A Bell rings.



I goe, and it is done: the Bell inuites me.

Heare it not, Duncan, for it is a Knell,

That summons thee to Heauen, or to Hell.

Enter.





Scena Secunda.



Enter Lady.



  La. That which hath made the[m] drunk, hath made me bold:

What hath quench'd them, hath giuen me fire.

Hearke, peace: it was the Owle that shriek'd,

The fatall Bell-man, which giues the stern'st good-night.

He is about it, the Doores are open:

And the surfeted Groomes doe mock their charge

With Snores. I haue drugg'd their Possets,

That Death and Nature doe contend about them,

Whether they liue, or dye.

Enter Macbeth.



  Macb. Who's there? what hoa?

  Lady. Alack, I am afraid they haue awak'd,

And 'tis not done: th' attempt, and not the deed,

Confounds vs: hearke: I lay'd their Daggers ready,

He could not misse 'em. Had he not resembled

My Father as he slept, I had don't.

My Husband?

  Macb. I haue done the deed:

Didst thou not heare a noyse?

  Lady. I heard the Owle schreame, and the Crickets cry.

Did not you speake?

  Macb. When?

  Lady. Now



   Macb. As I descended?

  Lady. I



   Macb. Hearke, who lyes i'th' second Chamber?

  Lady. Donalbaine



   Mac. This is a sorry sight



   Lady. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight



   Macb. There's one did laugh in's sleepe,

And one cry'd Murther, that they did wake each other:

I stood, and heard them: But they did say their Prayers,

And addrest them againe to sleepe



   Lady. There are two lodg'd together



   Macb. One cry'd God blesse vs, and Amen the other,

As they had seene me with these Hangmans hands:

Listning their feare, I could not say Amen,

When they did say God blesse vs



   Lady. Consider it not so deepely



   Mac. But wherefore could not I pronounce Amen?

I had most need of Blessing, and Amen stuck in my throat



   Lady. These deeds must not be thought

After these wayes: so, it will make vs mad



   Macb. Me thought I heard a voyce cry, Sleep no more:

Macbeth does murther Sleepe, the innocent Sleepe,

Sleepe that knits vp the rauel'd Sleeue of Care,

The death of each dayes Life, sore Labors Bath,

Balme of hurt Mindes, great Natures second Course,

Chiefe nourisher in Life's Feast



   Lady. What doe you meane?

  Macb. Still it cry'd, Sleepe no more to all the House:

Glamis hath murther'd Sleepe, and therefore Cawdor

Shall sleepe no more: Macbeth shall sleepe no more



   Lady. Who was it, that thus cry'd? why worthy Thane,

You doe vnbend your Noble strength, to thinke

So braine-sickly of things: Goe get some Water,

And wash this filthie Witnesse from your Hand.

Why did you bring these Daggers from the place?

They must lye there: goe carry them, and smeare

The sleepie Groomes with blood



   Macb. Ile goe no more:

I am afraid, to thinke what I haue done:

Looke on't againe, I dare not



   Lady. Infirme of purpose:

Giue me the Daggers: the sleeping, and the dead,

Are but as Pictures: 'tis the Eye of Childhood,

That feares a painted Deuill. If he doe bleed,

Ile guild the Faces of the Groomes withall,

For it must seeme their Guilt.

Enter.



Knocke within.
