You best know the place.

And tell she come, as truely as to heauen,

I do confesse the vices of my blood,

So iustly to your Graue eares, Ile present

How I did thriue in this faire Ladies loue,

And she in mine



   Duke. Say it Othello



   Othe. Her Father lou'd me, oft inuited me:

Still question'd me the Storie of my life,

From yeare to yeare: the Battaile, Sieges, Fortune,

That I haue past.

I ran it through, euen from my boyish daies,

Toth' very moment that he bad me tell it.

Wherein I spoke of most disastrous chances:

Of mouing Accidents by Flood and Field,

Of haire-breadth scapes i'th' imminent deadly breach;

Of being taken by the Insolent Foe,

And sold to slauery. Of my redemption thence,

And portance in my Trauellours historie.

Wherein of Antars vast, and Desarts idle,

Rough Quarries, Rocks, Hills, whose head touch heauen,

It was my hint to speake. Such was my Processe,

And of the Canibals that each others eate,

The Antropophague, and men whose heads

Grew beneath their shoulders. These things to heare,

Would Desdemona seriously incline:

But still the house Affaires would draw her hence:

Which euer as she could with haste dispatch,

She'l'd come againe, and with a greedie eare

Deuoure vp my discourse. Which I obseruing,

Tooke once a pliant houre, and found good meanes

To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart,

That I would all my Pilgrimage dilate,

Whereof by parcels she had something heard,

But not instinctiuely: I did consent,

And often did beguile her of her teares,

When I did speake of some distressefull stroke

That my youth suffer'd: My Storie being done,

She gaue me for my paines a world of kisses:

She swore in faith 'twas strange: 'twas passing strange,

'Twas pittifull: 'twas wondrous pittifull.

She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd

That Heauen had made her such a man. She thank'd me,

And bad me, if I had a Friend that lou'd her,

I should but teach him how to tell my Story,

And that would wooe her. Vpon this hint I spake,

She lou'd me for the dangers I had past,

And I lou'd her, that she did pitty them.

This onely is the witch-craft I haue vs'd.

Here comes the Ladie: Let her witnesse it.



Enter Desdemona, Iago, Attendants.



  Duke. I thinke this tale would win my Daughter too,

Good Brabantio, take vp this mangled matter at the best:

Men do their broken Weapons rather vse,

Then their bare hands



   Bra. I pray you heare her speake?

If she confesse that she was halfe the wooer,

Destruction on my head, if my bad blame

Light on the man. Come hither gentle Mistris,

Do you perceiue in all this Noble Companie,

Where most you owe obedience?

  Des. My Noble Father,

I do perceiue heere a diuided dutie.

To you I am bound for life, and education:

My life and education both do learne me,

How to respect you. You are the Lord of duty,

I am hitherto your Daughter. But heere's my Husband;

And so much dutie, as my Mother shew'd

To you, preferring you before her Father:

So much I challenge, that I may professe

Due to the Moore my Lord



   Bra. God be with you: I haue done.

Please it your Grace, on to the State Affaires;

I had rather to adopt a Child, then get it.

Come hither Moore;

I here do giue thee that with all my heart,

Which but thou hast already, with all my heart

I would keepe from thee. For your sake (Iewell)

I am glad at soule, I haue no other Child,

For thy escape would teach me Tirranie

To hang clogges on them. I haue done my Lord



   Duke. Let me speake like your selfe:

And lay a Sentence,

Which as a grise, or step may helpe these Louers.

When remedies are past, the griefes are ended

By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.

To mourne a Mischeefe that is past and gon,

Is the next way to draw new mischiefe on.

What cannot be preseru'd, when Fortune takes:

Patience, her Iniury a mock'ry makes.

The rob'd that smiles, steales something from the Thiefe,

He robs himselfe, that spends a bootelesse griefe



   Bra. So let the Turke of Cyprus vs beguile,

We loose it not so long as we can smile:

He beares the Sentence well, that nothing beares,

But the free comfort which from thence he heares.

But he beares both the Sentence, and the sorrow,

That to pay griefe, must of poore Patience borrow.

These Sentences, to Sugar, or to Gall,

Being strong on both sides, are Equiuocall.

But words are words, I neuer yet did heare:

That the bruized heart was pierc'd through the eares.

I humbly beseech you proceed to th' Affaires of State



   Duke. The Turke with a most mighty Preparation

makes for Cyprus: Othello, the Fortitude of the place is

best knowne to you. And though we haue there a Substitute

of most allowed sufficiencie; yet opinion, a more

soueraigne Mistris of Effects, throwes a more safer

voice on you: you must therefore be content to slubber

the glosse of your new Fortunes, with this more stubborne,

and boystrous expedition



   Othe. The Tirant Custome, most Graue Senators,

Hath made the flinty and Steele Coach of Warre

My thrice-driuen bed of Downe. I do agnize

A Naturall and prompt Alacratie,

I finde in hardnesse: and do vndertake

This present Warres against the Ottamites.

Most humbly therefore bending to your State,

I craue fit disposition for my Wife,

Due reference of Place, and Exhibition,

With such Accomodation and besort

As leuels with her breeding



   Duke. Why at her Fathers?

  Bra. I will not haue it so



   Othe. Nor I



   Des. Nor would I there recide,

To put my Father in impatient thoughts

By being in his eye. Most Gracious Duke,

To my vnfolding, lend your prosperous eare,

And let me finde a Charter in your voice

T' assist my simplenesse



   Duke. What would you Desdemona?

  Des. That I loue the Moore, to liue with him,

My downe-right violence, and storme of Fortunes,

May trumpet to the world. My heart's subdu'd

Euen to the very quality of my Lord;

I saw Othello's visage in his mind,

And to his Honours and his valiant parts,

Did I my soule and Fortunes consecrate.

So that (deere Lords) if I be left behind

A Moth of Peace, and he go to the Warre,

The Rites for why I loue him, are bereft me:

And I a heauie interim shall support

By his deere absence. Let me go with him



   Othe. Let her haue your voice.

Vouch with me Heauen, I therefore beg it not

To please the pallate of my Appetite:

Nor to comply with heat the yong affects

In my defunct, and proper satisfaction.

But to be free, and bounteous to her minde:

And Heauen defend your good soules, that you thinke

I will your serious and great businesse scant

When she is with me. No, when light wing'd Toyes

Of feather'd Cupid, seele with wanton dulnesse

My speculatiue, and offic'd Instrument:

That my Disports corrupt, and taint my businesse:

Let House-wiues make a Skillet of my Helme,

And all indigne, and base aduersities,

Make head against my Estimation



   Duke. Be it as you shall priuately determine,

Either for her stay, or going: th' Affaire cries hast:

And speed must answer it



   Sen. You must away to night



   Othe. With all my heart



   Duke. At nine i'th' morning, here wee'l meete againe.

Othello, leaue some Officer behind

And he shall our Commission bring to you:

And such things else of qualitie and respect

As doth import you



   Othe. So please your Grace, my Ancient,

A man he is of honesty and trust:

To his conueyance I assigne my wife,

With what else needfull, your good Grace shall think

To be sent after me



   Duke. Let it be so:

Good night to euery one. And Noble Signior,

If Vertue no delighted Beautie lacke,

Your Son-in-law is farre more Faire then Blacke



   Sen. Adieu braue Moore, vse Desdemona well



   Bra. Looke to her (Moore) if thou hast eies to see:

She ha's deceiu'd her Father, and may thee.

Enter.



  Othe. My life vpon her faith. Honest Iago,

My Desdemona must I leaue to thee:

I prythee let thy wife attend on her,

And bring them after in the best aduantage.

Come Desdemona, I haue but an houre

Of Loue, of wordly matter, and direction

To spend with thee. We must obey the time.

Enter.



  Rod. Iago



   Iago. What saist thou Noble heart?

  Rod. What will I do, think'st thou?

  Iago. Why go to bed and sleepe



   Rod. I will incontinently drowne my selfe



   Iago. If thou do'st, I shall neuer loue thee after. Why

thou silly Gentleman?

  Rod. It is sillynesse to liue, when to liue is torment:

and then haue we a prescription to dye, when death is

our Physition



   Iago. Oh villanous: I haue look'd vpon the world

for foure times seuen yeares, and since I could distinguish

betwixt a Benefit, and an Iniurie: I neuer found man that

knew how to loue himselfe. Ere I would say, I would

drowne my selfe for the loue of a Gynney Hen, I would

change my Humanity with a Baboone



   Rod. What should I do? I confesse it is my shame

to be so fond, but it is not in my vertue to amend it



   Iago. Vertue? A figge, 'tis in our selues that we are

thus, or thus. Our Bodies are our Gardens, to the which,

our Wills are Gardiners. So that if we will plant Nettels,

or sowe Lettice: Set Hisope, and weede vp Time:

Supplie it with one gender of Hearbes, or distract it with

many: either to haue it sterrill with idlenesse, or manured

with Industry, why the power, and Corrigeable authoritie

of this lies in our Wills. If the braine of our liues

had not one Scale of Reason, to poize another of Sensualitie,

the blood, and basenesse of our Natures would

conduct vs to most prepostrous Conclusions. But we

haue Reason to coole our raging Motions, our carnall

Stings, or vnbitted Lusts: whereof I take this, that you

call Loue, to be a Sect, or Seyen



   Rod. It cannot be



   Iago. It is meerly a Lust of the blood, and a permission

of the will. Come, be a man: drowne thy selfe? Drown

Cats, and blind Puppies. I haue profest me thy Friend,

and I confesse me knit to thy deseruing, with Cables of

perdurable toughnesse. I could neuer better steed thee

then now. Put Money in thy purse: follow thou the

Warres, defeate thy fauour, with an vsurp'd Beard. I say

put Money in thy purse. It cannot be long that Desdemona

should continue her loue to the Moore. Put Money in

thy purse: nor he his to her. It was a violent Commencement

in her, and thou shalt see an answerable Sequestration,

put but Money in thy purse. These Moores

are changeable in their wils: fill thy purse with Money.

The Food that to him now is as lushious as Locusts,

shalbe to him shortly, as bitter as Coloquintida. She

must change for youth: when she is sated with his body

she will find the errors of her choice. Therefore, put Money

in thy purse. If thou wilt needs damne thy selfe, do

it a more delicate way then drowning. Make all the Money

thou canst: If Sanctimonie, and a fraile vow, betwixt

an erring Barbarian, and super-subtle Venetian be

not too hard for my wits, and all the Tribe of hell, thou

shalt enioy her: therefore make Money: a pox of drowning

thy selfe, it is cleane out of the way. Seeke thou rather

to be hang'd in Compassing thy ioy, then to be

drown'd, and go without her



   Rodo. Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on

the issue?

  Iago. Thou art sure of me: Go make Money: I haue

told thee often, and I re-tell thee againe, and againe, I

hate the Moore. My cause is hearted; thine hath no lesse

reason. Let vs be coniunctiue in our reuenge, against

him. If thou canst Cuckold him, thou dost thy selfe a

pleasure, me a sport. There are many Euents in the

Wombe of Time, which wilbe deliuered. Trauerse, go,

prouide thy Money. We will haue more of this to morrow.

Adieu



   Rod. Where shall we meete i'th' morning?

  Iago. At my Lodging



   Rod. Ile be with thee betimes



   Iago. Go too, farewell. Do you heare Rodorigo?

  Rod. Ile sell all my Land.

Enter.



  Iago. Thus do I euer make my Foole, my purse:

For I mine owne gain'd knowledge should prophane

If I would time expend with such Snipe,

But for my Sport, and Profit: I hate the Moore,

And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets

She ha's done my Office. I know not if't be true,

But I, for meere suspition in that kinde,

Will do, as if for Surety. He holds me well,

The better shall my purpose worke on him:

Cassio's a proper man: Let me see now,

To get his Place, and to plume vp my will

In double Knauery. How? How? Let's see.

After some time, to abuse Othello's eares,

That he is too familiar with his wife:

He hath a person, and a smooth dispose

To be suspected: fram'd to make women false.

The Moore is of a free, and open Nature,

That thinkes men honest, that but seeme to be so,

And will as tenderly be lead by'th' Nose

As Asses are:

I hau't: it is engendred: Hell, and Night,

Must bring this monstrous Birth, to the worlds light.



Actus Secundus. Scena Prima.



Enter Montano, and two Gentlemen.



  Mon. What from the Cape, can you discerne at Sea?

  1.Gent. Nothing at all, it is a high wrought Flood:

I cannot 'twixt the Heauen, and the Maine,

Descry a Saile



   Mon. Me thinks, the wind hath spoke aloud at Land,

A fuller blast ne're shooke our Battlements:

If it hath ruffiand so vpon the Sea,

What ribbes of Oake, when Mountaines melt on them,

Can hold the Morties. What shall we heare of this?

  2 A Segregation of the Turkish Fleet:

For do but stand vpon the Foaming Shore,

The chidden Billow seemes to pelt the Clowds,

The winde-shak'd-Surge, with high & monstrous Maine

Seemes to cast water on the burning Beare,

And quench the Guards of th' euer-fixed Pole:

I neuer did like mollestation view

On the enchafed Flood



   Men. If that the Turkish Fleete

Be not enshelter'd, and embay'd, they are drown'd,

It is impossible to beare it out.

Enter a Gentleman.



  3 Newes Laddes: our warres are done:

The desperate Tempest hath so bang'd the Turkes,

That their designement halts. A Noble ship of Venice,

Hath seene a greeuous wracke and sufferance

On most part of their Fleet



   Mon. How? Is this true?

  3 The Ship is heere put in: A Verennessa, Michael Cassio

Lieutenant to the warlike Moore, Othello,

Is come on Shore: the Moore himselfe at Sea,

And is in full Commission heere for Cyprus



   Mon. I am glad on't:

'Tis a worthy Gouernour



   3 But this same Cassio, though he speake of comfort,

Touching the Turkish losse, yet he lookes sadly,

And praye the Moore be safe; for they were parted

With fowle and violent Tempest



   Mon. Pray Heauens he be:

For I haue seru'd him, and the man commands

Like a full Soldier. Let's to the Sea-side (hoa)

As well to see the Vessell that's come in,

As to throw-out our eyes for braue Othello,

Euen till we make the Maine, and th' Eriall blew,

An indistinct regard



   Gent. Come, let's do so;

For euery Minute is expectancie

Of more Arriuancie.

Enter Cassio.



  Cassi. Thankes you, the valiant of the warlike Isle,

That so approoue the Moore: Oh let the Heauens

Giue him defence against the Elements,

For I haue lost him on a dangerous Sea



   Mon. Is he well ship'd?

  Cassio. His Barke is stoutly Timber'd, and his Pylot

Of verie expert, and approu'd Allowance;

Therefore my hope's (not surfetted to death)

Stand in bold Cure



   Within. A Saile, a Saile, a Saile


