 Cassio. What noise?

  Gent. The Towne is empty; on the brow o'th' Sea

Stand rankes of People and they cry, a Saile



   Cassio. My hopes do shape him for the Gouernor



   Gent. They do discharge their Shot of Courtesie,

Our Friends, at least



   Cassio. I pray you Sir, go forth,

And giue vs truth who 'tis that is arriu'd



   Gent. I shall.

Enter.



  Mon. But good Lieutenant, is your Generall wiu'd?

  Cassio. Most fortunately: he hath atchieu'd a Maid

That paragons description, and wilde Fame:

One that excels the quirkes of Blazoning pens,

And in th' essentiall Vesture of Creation,

Do's tyre the Ingeniuer.

Enter Gentleman.



How now? Who ha's put in?

  Gent. 'Tis one Iago, Auncient to the Generall



   Cassio. Ha's had most fauourable, and happie speed:

Tempests themselues, high Seas, and howling windes,

The gutter'd-Rockes, and Congregated Sands,

Traitors ensteep'd, to enclogge the guiltlesse Keele,

As hauing sence of Beautie, do omit

Their mortall Natures, letting go safely by

The Diuine Desdemona



   Mon. What is she?

  Cassio. She that I spake of:

Our great Captains Captaine,

Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,

Whose footing heere anticipates our thoughts,

A Senights speed. Great Ioue, Othello guard,

And swell his Saile with thine owne powrefull breath,

That he may blesse this Bay with his tall Ship,

Make loues quicke pants in Desdemonaes Armes,

Giue renew'd fire to our extincted Spirits.



Enter Desdemona, Iago, Rodorigo, and Aemilia.



Oh behold,

The Riches of the Ship is come on shore:

You men of Cyprus, let her haue your knees.

Haile to thee Ladie: and the grace of Heauen,

Before, behinde thee, and on euery hand

Enwheele thee round



   Des. I thanke you, Valiant Cassio,

What tydings can you tell of my Lord?

  Cas. He is not yet arriu'd, nor know I ought

But that he's well, and will be shortly heere



   Des. Oh, but I feare:

How lost you company?

  Cassio. The great Contention of Sea, and Skies

Parted our fellowship. But hearke, a Saile



   Within. A Saile, a Saile



   Gent. They giue this greeting to the Cittadell:

This likewise is a Friend



   Cassio. See for the Newes:

Good Ancient, you are welcome. Welcome Mistris:

Let it not gaule your patience (good Iago)

That I extend my Manners. 'Tis my breeding,

That giues me this bold shew of Curtesie



   Iago. Sir, would she giue you so much of her lippes,

As of her tongue she oft bestowes on me,

You would haue enough



   Des. Alas: she ha's no speech



   Iago. Infaith too much:

I finde it still, when I haue leaue to sleepe.

Marry before your Ladyship, I grant,

She puts her tongue a little in her heart,

And chides with thinking



   aemil. You haue little cause to say so



   Iago. Come on, come on: you are Pictures out of

doore: Bells in your Parlours: Wilde-Cats in your Kitchens:

Saints in your Iniuries: Diuels being offended:

Players in your Huswiferie, and Huswiues in your

Beds



   Des. Oh, fie vpon thee, Slanderer



   Iago. Nay, it is true: or else I am a Turke,

You rise to play, and go to bed to worke.

Aemil. You shall not write my praise



   Iago. No, let me not



   Desde. What would'st write of me, if thou should'st

praise me?

  Iago. Oh, gentle Lady, do not put me too't,

For I am nothing, if not Criticall



   Des. Come on, assay.

There's one gone to the Harbour?

  Iago. I Madam



   Des. I am not merry: but I do beguile

The thing I am, by seeming otherwise.

Come, how would'st thou praise me?

  Iago. I am about it, but indeed my inuention comes

from my pate, as Birdlyme do's from Freeze, it pluckes

out Braines and all. But my Muse labours, and thus she

is deliuer'd.

If she be faire, and wise: fairenesse, and wit,

The ones for vse, the other vseth it



   Des. Well prais'd:

How if she be Blacke and Witty?

  Iago. If she be blacke, and thereto haue a wit,

She'le find a white, that shall her blacknesse fit



   Des. Worse, and worse.

Aemil. How if Faire, and Foolish?

  Iago. She neuer yet was foolish that was faire,

For euen her folly helpt her to an heire



   Desde. These are old fond Paradoxes, to make Fooles

laugh i'th' Alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou

for her that's Foule, and Foolish



   Iago. There's none so foule and foolish thereunto,

But do's foule pranks, which faire, and wise-ones do



   Desde. Oh heauy ignorance: thou praisest the worst

best. But what praise could'st thou bestow on a deseruing

woman indeed? One, that in the authorithy of her

merit, did iustly put on the vouch of very malice it

selfe



   Iago. She that was euer faire, and neuer proud,

Had Tongue at will, and yet was neuer loud:

Neuer lackt Gold, and yet went neuer gay,

Fled from her wish, and yet said now I may.

She that being angred, her reuenge being nie,

Bad her wrong stay, and her displeasure flie:

She that in wisedome neuer was so fraile,

To change the Cods-head for the Salmons taile:

She that could thinke, and neu'r disclose her mind,

See Suitors following, and not looke behind:

She was a wight, (if euer such wightes were)

  Des. To do what?

  Iago. To suckle Fooles, and chronicle small Beere



   Desde. Oh most lame and impotent conclusion. Do

not learne of him aemillia, though he be thy husband.

How say you (Cassio) is he not a most prophane, and liberall

Counsailor?

  Cassio. He speakes home (Madam) you may rellish

him more in the Souldier, then in the Scholler



   Iago. He takes her by the palme: I, well said, whisper.

With as little a web as this, will I ensnare as great

a Fly as Cassio. I smile vpon her, do: I will giue thee

in thine owne Courtship. You say true, 'tis so indeed.

If such tricks as these strip you out of your Lieutenantrie,

it had beene better you had not kiss'd your three fingers

so oft, which now againe you are most apt to play

the Sir, in. Very good: well kiss'd, and excellent Curtsie:

'tis so indeed. Yet againe, your fingers to your

lippes? Would they were Cluster-pipes for your

sake.

The Moore I know his Trumpet



   Cassio. 'Tis truely so



   Des. Let's meete him, and recieue him



   Cassio. Loe, where he comes.

Enter Othello, and Attendants.



  Oth. O, my faire Warriour



   Des. My deere Othello



   Othe. It giues me wonder great, as my content

To see you heere before me.

Oh my Soules Ioy:

If after euery Tempest, come such Calmes,

May the windes blow, till they haue waken'd death:

And let the labouring Barke climbe hills of Seas

Olympus high: and duck againe as low,

As hell's from Heauen. If it were now to dye,

'Twere now to be most happy. For I feare,

My Soule hath her content so absolute,

That not another comfort like to this,

Succeedes in vnknowne Fate



   Des. The Heauens forbid

But that our Loues

And Comforts should encrease

Euen as our dayes do grow



   Othe. Amen to that (sweet Powers)

I cannot speake enough of this content,

It stoppes me heere: it is too much of ioy.

And this, and this the greatest discords be

That ere our hearts shall make



   Iago. Oh you are well tun'd now: But Ile set downe

the peggs that make this Musicke, as honest as I am



   Othe. Come: let vs to the Castle.

Newes (Friends) our Warres are done:

The Turkes are drown'd.

How do's my old Acquaintance of this Isle?

(Hony) you shall be well desir'd in Cyprus,

I haue found great loue among'st them. Oh my Sweet,

I prattle out of fashion, and I doate

In mine owne comforts. I prythee, good Iago,

Go to the Bay, and disimbarke my Coffers:

Bring thou the Master to the Cittadell,

He is a good one, and his worthynesse

Do's challenge much respect. Come Desdemona,

Once more well met at Cyprus.



Exit Othello and Desdemona.



  Iago. Do thou meet me presently at the Harbour.

Come thither, if thou be'st Valiant, (as they say base men

being in Loue, haue then a Nobilitie in their Natures,

more then is natiue to them) list-me; the Lieutenant to

night watches on the Court of Guard. First, I must tell

thee this: Desdemona, is directly in loue with him



   Rod. With him? Why, 'tis not possible



   Iago. Lay thy finger thus: and let thy soule be instructed.

Marke me with what violence she first lou'd

the Moore, but for bragging, and telling her fantasticall

lies. To loue him still for prating, let not thy discreet

heart thinke it. Her eye must be fed. And what delight

shall she haue to looke on the diuell? When the Blood

is made dull with the Act of Sport, there should be a

game to enflame it, and to giue Satiety a fresh appetite.

Louelinesse in fauour, simpathy in yeares, Manners,

and Beauties: all which the Moore is defectiue in. Now

for want of these requir'd Conueniences, her delicate

tendernesse wil finde it selfe abus'd, begin to heaue the,

gorge, disrellish and abhorre the Moore, very Nature wil

instruct her in it, and compell her to some second choice.

Now Sir, this granted (as it is a most pregnant and vnforc'd

position) who stands so eminent in the degree of

this Fortune, as Cassio do's: a knaue very voluble: no

further conscionable, then in putting on the meere forme

of Ciuill, and Humaine seeming, for the better compasse

of his salt, and most hidden loose Affection? Why none,

why none: A slipper, and subtle knaue, a finder of occasion:

that he's an eye can stampe, and counterfeit Aduantages,

though true Aduantage neuer present it selfe.

A diuelish knaue: besides, the knaue is handsome, young:

and hath all those requisites in him, that folly and greene

mindes looke after. A pestilent compleat knaue, and the

woman hath found him already



   Rodo. I cannot beleeue that in her, she's full of most

bless'd condition



   Iago. Bless'd figges-end. The Wine she drinkes is

made of grapes. If shee had beene bless'd, shee would

neuer haue lou'd the Moore: Bless'd pudding. Didst thou

not see her paddle with the palme of his hand? Didst not

marke that?

  Rod. Yes, that I did: but that was but curtesie



   Iago . Leacherie by this hand: an Index, and obscure

prologue to the History of Lust and foule Thoughts.

They met so neere with their lippes, that their breathes

embrac'd together. Villanous thoughts Rodorigo, when

these mutabilities so marshall the way, hard at hand

comes the Master, and maine exercise, th' incorporate

conclusion: Pish. But Sir, be you rul'd by me. I haue

brought you from Venice. Watch you to night: for

the Command, Ile lay't vpon you. Cassio knowes you

not: Ile not be farre from you. Do you finde some occasion

to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or

tainting his discipline, or from what other course

you please, which the time shall more fauorably minister



   Rod. Well
