

  Pet. Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease,' 'Heart's ease'!

    O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'

  1. Mus. Why 'Heart's ease'',



  Pet. O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My heart is

    full of woe.' O, play me some merry dump to comfort me.

  1. Mus. Not a dump we! 'Tis no time to play now.



  Pet. You will not then?

  1. Mus. No.



  Pet. I will then give it you soundly.

  1. Mus. What will you give us?



  Pet. No money, on my faith, but the gleek. I will give you the

     minstrel.

  1. Mus. Then will I give you the serving-creature.



  Pet. Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on your pate.

    I will carry no crotchets. I'll re you, I'll fa you. Do you

    note me?

  1. Mus. An you re us and fa us, you note us.

  2. Mus. Pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.



  Pet. Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you with an

    iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer me like men.



           'When griping grief the heart doth wound,

             And doleful dumps the mind oppress,

           Then music with her silver sound'-



    Why 'silver sound'? Why 'music with her silver sound'?

    What say you, Simon Catling?

  1. Mus. Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.



  Pet. Pretty! What say You, Hugh Rebeck?

  2. Mus. I say 'silver sound' because musicians sound for silver.



  Pet. Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?

  3. Mus. Faith, I know not what to say.



  Pet. O, I cry you mercy! you are the singer. I will say for you. It

    is 'music with her silver sound' because musicians have no

    gold for sounding.



           'Then music with her silver sound

             With speedy help doth lend redress.'         [Exit.



  1. Mus. What a pestilent knave is this same?

  2. Mus. Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here, tarry for the

    mourners, and stay dinner.

                          



  Rom. If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep

    My dreams presage some joyful news at hand.

    My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne,

    And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit

    Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.

    I dreamt my lady came and found me dead

    (Strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think!)

    And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips

    That I reviv'd and was an emperor.

    Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,

    When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!



                Enter Romeo's Man Balthasar, booted.



    News from Verona! How now, Balthasar?

    Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?

    How doth my lady? Is my father well?

    How fares my Juliet? That I ask again,

    For nothing can be ill if she be well.



  Man. Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.

    Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,

    And her immortal part with angels lives.

    I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault

    And presently took post to tell it you.

    O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,

    Since you did leave it for my office, sir.



  Rom. Is it e'en so? Then I defy you, stars!

    Thou knowest my lodging. Get me ink and paper

    And hire posthorses. I will hence to-night.



  Man. I do beseech you, sir, have patience.

    Your looks are pale and wild and do import

    Some misadventure.



  Rom. Tush, thou art deceiv'd.

    Leave me and do the thing I bid thee do.

    Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?



  Man. No, my good lord.



  Rom. No matter. Get thee gone

    And hire those horses. I'll be with thee straight.

                                               Exit [Balthasar].

    Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.

    Let's see for means. O mischief, thou art swift

    To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!

    I do remember an apothecary,

    And hereabouts 'a dwells, which late I noted

    In tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows,

    Culling of simples. Meagre were his looks,

    Sharp misery had worn him to the bones;

    And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,

    An alligator stuff'd, and other skins

    Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves

    A beggarly account of empty boxes,

    Green earthen pots, bladders, and musty seeds,

    Remnants of packthread, and old cakes of roses

    Were thinly scattered, to make up a show.

    Noting this penury, to myself I said,

    'An if a man did need a poison now

    Whose sale is present death in Mantua,

    Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'

    O, this same thought did but forerun my need,

    And this same needy man must sell it me.

    As I remember, this should be the house.

    Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut. What, ho! apothecary!



                        Enter Apothecary.





  Apoth. Who calls so loud?



  Rom. Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor.

    Hold, there is forty ducats. Let me have

    A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear

    As will disperse itself through all the veins

    That the life-weary taker mall fall dead,

    And that the trunk may be discharg'd of breath

    As violently as hasty powder fir'd

    Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.



  Apoth. Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law

    Is death to any he that utters them.



  Rom. Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness

    And fearest to die? Famine is in thy cheeks,

    Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,

    Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back:

    The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law;

    The world affords no law to make thee rich;

    Then be not poor, but break it and take this.



  Apoth. My poverty but not my will consents.



  Rom. I pay thy poverty and not thy will.



  Apoth. Put this in any liquid thing you will

    And drink it off, and if you had the strength

    Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.



  Rom. There is thy gold- worse poison to men's souls,

    Doing more murther in this loathsome world,

    Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.

    I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.

    Farewell. Buy food and get thyself in flesh.

    Come, cordial and not poison, go with me

    To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.Enter Friar John to Friar Laurence.





  John. Holy Franciscan friar, brother, ho!



                      Enter Friar Laurence.





  Laur. This same should be the voice of Friar John.

    Welcome from Mantua. What says Romeo?

    Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.



  John. Going to find a barefoot brother out,

    One of our order, to associate me

    Here in this city visiting the sick,

    And finding him, the searchers of the town,

    Suspecting that we both were in a house

    Where the infectious pestilence did reign,

    Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth,

    So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.



  Laur. Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?



  John. I could not send it- here it is again-

    Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,

    So fearful were they of infection.



  Laur. Unhappy fortune! By my brotherhood,

    The letter was not nice, but full of charge,

    Of dear import; and the neglecting it

    May do much danger. Friar John, go hence,

    Get me an iron crow and bring it straight

    Unto my cell.



  John. Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.                 Exit.



  Laur. Now, must I to the monument alone.

    Within this three hours will fair Juliet wake.

    She will beshrew me much that Romeo

    Hath had no notice of these accidents;

    But I will write again to Mantua,

    And keep her at my cell till Romeo come-

    Poor living corse, clos'd in a dead man's tomb!        Exit.







Enter Paris and his Page with flowers and [a torch].





  Par. Give me thy torch, boy. Hence, and stand aloof.

    Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.

    Under yond yew tree lay thee all along,

    Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground.

    So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread

    (Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves)

    But thou shalt hear it. Whistle then to me,

    As signal that thou hear'st something approach.

    Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.



  Page. [aside] I am almost afraid to stand alone

    Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.     [Retires.]



  Par. Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew

    (O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones)

    Which with sweet water nightly I will dew;

    Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans.

    The obsequies that I for thee will keep

    Nightly shall be to strew, thy grave and weep.

                                                    Whistle Boy.

    The boy gives warning something doth approach.

    What cursed foot wanders this way to-night

    To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?

    What, with a torch? Muffle me, night, awhile.     [Retires.]



       Enter Romeo, and Balthasar with a torch, a mattock,

                    and a crow of iron.





  Rom. Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.

    Hold, take this letter. Early in the morning

    See thou deliver it to my lord and father.

    Give me the light. Upon thy life I charge thee,

    Whate'er thou hearest or seest, stand all aloof

    And do not interrupt me in my course.

    Why I descend into this bed of death

    Is partly to behold my lady's face,

    But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger

    A precious ring- a ring that I must use

    In dear employment. Therefore hence, be gone.

    But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry

    In what I farther shall intend to do,

    By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint

    And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs.

    The time and my intents are savage-wild,

    More fierce and more inexorable far

    Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.



  Bal. I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.



  Rom. So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that.

    Live, and be prosperous; and farewell, good fellow.



  Bal. [aside] For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout.

    His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.        [Retires.]



  Rom. Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,

    Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,

    Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,

    And in despite I'll cram thee with more food.

                                           Romeo opens the tomb.



  Par. This is that banish'd haughty Montague

    That murd'red my love's cousin- with which grief

    It is supposed the fair creature died-

    And here is come to do some villanous shame

    To the dead bodies. I will apprehend him.

    Stop thy unhallowed toil, vile Montague!

    Can vengeance be pursu'd further than death?

    Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee.

    Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.



  Rom. I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.

    Good gentle youth, tempt not a desp'rate man.

    Fly hence and leave me. Think upon these gone;

    Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,

    But not another sin upon my head

    By urging me to fury. O, be gone!

    By heaven, I love thee better than myself,

    For I come hither arm'd against myself.

    Stay not, be gone. Live, and hereafter say

    A madman's mercy bid thee run away.



  Par. I do defy thy, conjuration

    And apprehend thee for a felon here.



  Rom. Wilt thou provoke me? Then have at thee, boy!

                                                     They fight.



  Page. O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.

                                            [Exit. Paris falls.]



  Par. O, I am slain! If thou be merciful,

    Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.                   [Dies.]



  Rom. In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.

    Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!

    What said my man when my betossed soul

    Did not attend him as we rode? I think

    He told me Paris should have married Juliet.

    Said he not so? or did I dream it so?

    Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet

    To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,

    One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!

    I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave.

    A grave? O, no, a lanthorn, slaught'red youth,

    For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes

    This vault a feasting presence full of light.

    Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.

                                         [Lays him in the tomb.]

    How oft when men are at the point of death

    Have they been merry! which their keepers call

    A lightning before death. O, how may I

    Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!

    Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,

    Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty.

    Thou art not conquer'd. Beauty's ensign yet

    Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,

    And death's pale flag is not advanced there.

    Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?

    O, what more favour can I do to thee

    Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain

    To sunder his that was thine enemy?

    Forgive me, cousin.' Ah, dear Juliet,

    Why art thou yet so fair? Shall I believe

    That unsubstantial Death is amorous,

    And that the lean abhorred monster keeps

    Thee here in dark to be his paramour?

    For fear of that I still will stay with thee

    And never from this palace of dim night

    Depart again. Here, here will I remain

    With worms that are thy chambermaids. O, here

    Will I set up my everlasting rest

    And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars

    From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!

    Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you

    The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss

    A dateless bargain to engrossing death!

    Come, bitter conduct; come, unsavoury guide!

    Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on

    The dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark!

    Here's to my love! [Drinks.] O true apothecary!

    Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.          Falls.



    Enter Friar [Laurence], with lanthorn, crow, and spade.





  Friar. Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night

    Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?



  Bal. Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.



  Friar. Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,

    What torch is yond that vainly lends his light

    To grubs and eyeless skulls? As I discern,

    It burneth in the Capels' monument.


