

  When I do count the clock that tells the time,

  And see the brave day sunk in hideous night;

  When I behold the violet past prime,

  And sable curls, all silvered o'er with white;

  When lofty trees I see barren of leaves,

  Which erst from heat did canopy the herd,

  And summer's green all girded up in sheaves,

  Borne on the bier with white and bristly beard,

  Then of thy beauty do I question make,

  That thou among the wastes of time must go,

  Since sweets and beauties do themselves forsake

  And die as fast as they see others grow;

    And nothing 'gainst Time's scythe can make defence

    Save breed, to brave him when he takes thee hence.

O! that you were your self; but, love you are

  No longer yours, than you your self here live:

  Against this coming end you should prepare,

  And your sweet semblance to some other give:

  So should that beauty which you hold in lease

  Find no determination; then you were

  Yourself again, after yourself's decease,

  When your sweet issue your sweet form should bear.

  Who lets so fair a house fall to decay,

  Which husbandry in honour might uphold,

  Against the stormy gusts of winter's day

  And barren rage of death's eternal cold?

    O! none but unthrifts. Dear my love, you know,

    You had a father: let your son say so.

 Not from the stars do I my judgement pluck;

  And yet methinks I have astronomy,

  But not to tell of good or evil luck,

  Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality;

  Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell,

  Pointing to each his thunder, rain and wind,

  Or say with princes if it shall go well

  By oft predict that I in heaven find:

  But from thine eyes my knowledge I derive,

  And constant stars in them I read such art

  As 'Truth and beauty shall together thrive,

  If from thyself, to store thou wouldst convert';

    Or else of thee this I prognosticate:

    'Thy end is truth's and beauty's doom and date.'



  When I consider every thing that grows

  Holds in perfection but a little moment,

  That this huge stage presenteth nought but shows

  Whereon the stars in secret influence comment;

  When I perceive that men as plants increase,

  Cheered and checked even by the self-same sky,

  Vaunt in their youthful sap, at height decrease,

  And wear their brave state out of memory;

  Then the conceit of this inconstant stay

  Sets you most rich in youth before my sight,

  Where wasteful Time debateth with decay

  To change your day of youth to sullied night,

    And all in war with Time for love of you,

    As he takes from you, I engraft you new.

Who will believe my verse in time to come,

  If it were fill'd with your most high deserts?

  Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb

  Which hides your life, and shows not half your parts.

  If I could write the beauty of your eyes,

  And in fresh numbers number all your graces,

  The age to come would say 'This poet lies;

  Such heavenly touches ne'er touch'd earthly faces.'

  So should my papers, yellow'd with their age,

  Be scorn'd, like old men of less truth than tongue,

  And your true rights be term'd a poet's rage

  And stretched metre of an antique song:

    But were some child of yours alive that time,

    You should live twice,--in it, and in my rhyme.

Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?

  Thou art more lovely and more temperate:

  Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,

  And summer's lease hath all too short a date:

  Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines,

  And often is his gold complexion dimm'd,

  And every fair from fair sometime declines,

  By chance, or nature's changing course untrimm'd:

  But thy eternal summer shall not fade,

  Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st,

  Nor shall death brag thou wander'st in his shade,

  When in eternal lines to time thou grow'st,

    So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see,

    So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.


A woman's face with nature's own hand painted,

  Hast thou, the master mistress of my passion;

  A woman's gentle heart, but not acquainted

  With shifting change, as is false women's fashion:

  An eye more bright than theirs, less false in rolling,

  Gilding the object whereupon it gazeth;

  A man in hue all 'hues' in his controlling,

  Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.

  And for a woman wert thou first created;

  Till Nature, as she wrought thee, fell a-doting,

  And by addition me of thee defeated,

  By adding one thing to my purpose nothing.

    But since she prick'd thee out for women's pleasure,

    Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.



  As an unperfect actor on the stage,

  Who with his fear is put beside his part,

  Or some fierce thing replete with too much rage,

  Whose strength's abundance weakens his own heart;

  So I, for fear of trust, forget to say

  The perfect ceremony of love's rite,

  And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,

  O'ercharg'd with burthen of mine own love's might.

  O! let my looks be then the eloquence

  And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,

  Who plead for love, and look for recompense,

  More than that tongue that more hath more express'd.

    O! learn to read what silent love hath writ:

    To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.


Mine eye hath play'd the painter and hath stell'd,

  Thy beauty's form in table of my heart;

  My body is the frame wherein 'tis held,

  And perspective it is best painter's art.

  For through the painter must you see his skill,

  To find where your true image pictur'd lies,

  Which in my bosom's shop is hanging still,

  That hath his windows glazed with thine eyes.

  Now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done:

  Mine eyes have drawn thy shape, and thine for me

  Are windows to my breast, where-through the sun

  Delights to peep, to gaze therein on thee;

    Yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art,

    They draw but what they see, know not the heart.

But wherefore do not you a mightier way

  Make war upon this bloody tyrant, Time?

  And fortify your self in your decay

  With means more blessed than my barren rhyme?

  Now stand you on the top of happy hours,

  And many maiden gardens, yet unset,

  With virtuous wish would bear you living flowers,

  Much liker than your painted counterfeit:

  So should the lines of life that life repair,

  Which this, Time's pencil, or my pupil pen,

  Neither in inward worth nor outward fair,

  Can make you live your self in eyes of men.

    To give away yourself, keeps yourself still,

    And you must live, drawn by your own sweet skill.


