  Hec. O well done: I commend your paines,

And euery one shall share i'th' gaines:

And now about the Cauldron sing

Like Elues and Fairies in a Ring,

Inchanting all that you put in.



Musicke and a Song. Blacke Spirits, &c.



  2 By the pricking of my Thumbes,

Something wicked this way comes:

Open Lockes, who euer knockes.

Enter Macbeth.



  Macb. How now you secret, black, & midnight Hags?

What is't you do?

  All. A deed without a name



   Macb. I coniure you, by that which you Professe,

(How ere you come to know it) answer me:

Though you vntye the Windes, and let them fight

Against the Churches: Though the yesty Waues

Confound and swallow Nauigation vp:

Though bladed Corne be lodg'd, & Trees blown downe,

Though Castles topple on their Warders heads:

Though Pallaces, and Pyramids do slope

Their heads to their Foundations: Though the treasure

Of Natures Germaine, tumble altogether,

Euen till destruction sicken: Answer me

To what I aske you



   1 Speake



   2 Demand



   3 Wee'l answer



   1 Say, if th'hadst rather heare it from our mouthes,

Or from our Masters



   Macb. Call 'em: let me see 'em



   1 Powre in Sowes blood, thathath eaten

Her nine Farrow: Greaze that's sweaten

From the Murderers Gibbet, throw

Into the Flame



   All. Come high or low:

Thy Selfe and Office deaftly show.

Thunder. 1. Apparation, an Armed Head.



  Macb. Tell me, thou vnknowne power



   1 He knowes thy thought:

Heare his speech, but say thou nought



   1 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth:

Beware Macduffe,

Beware the Thane of Fife: dismisse me. Enough.



He Descends.



  Macb. What ere thou art, for thy good caution, thanks

Thou hast harp'd my feare aright. But one word more



   1 He will not be commanded: heere's another

More potent then the first.



Thunder. 2 Apparition, a Bloody Childe.



  2 Appar. Macbeth, Macbeth, Macbeth



   Macb. Had I three eares, Il'd heare thee



   Appar. Be bloody, bold, & resolute:

Laugh to scorne

The powre of man: For none of woman borne

Shall harme Macbeth.



Descends.



  Mac. Then liue Macduffe: what need I feare of thee?

But yet Ile make assurance: double sure,

And take a Bond of Fate: thou shalt not liue,

That I may tell pale-hearted Feare, it lies;

And sleepe in spight of Thunder.



Thunder 3 Apparation, a Childe Crowned, with a Tree in his hand.



What is this, that rises like the issue of a King,

And weares vpon his Baby-brow, the round

And top of Soueraignty?

  All. Listen, but speake not too't



   3 Appar. Be Lyon metled, proud, and take no care:

Who chafes, who frets, or where Conspirers are:

Macbeth shall neuer vanquish'd be, vntill

Great Byrnam Wood, to high Dunsmane Hill

Shall come against him.



Descend.



  Macb. That will neuer bee:

Who can impresse the Forrest, bid the Tree

Vnfixe his earth-bound Root? Sweet boadments, good:

Rebellious dead, rise neuer till the Wood

Of Byrnan rise, and our high plac'd Macbeth

Shall liue the Lease of Nature, pay his breath

To time, and mortall Custome. Yet my Hart

Throbs to know one thing: Tell me, if your Art

Can tell so much: Shall Banquo's issue euer

Reigne in this Kingdome?

  All. Seeke to know no more



   Macb. I will be satisfied. Deny me this,

And an eternall Curse fall on you: Let me know.

Why sinkes that Caldron? & what noise is this?



Hoboyes



  1 Shew



   2 Shew



   3 Shew



   All. Shew his Eyes, and greeue his Hart,

Come like shadowes, so depart.



A shew of eight Kings, and Banquo last, with a glasse in his hand.



  Macb. Thou art too like the Spirit of Banquo: Down:

Thy Crowne do's seare mine Eye-bals. And thy haire

Thou other Gold-bound-brow, is like the first:

A third, is like the former. Filthy Hagges,

Why do you shew me this? - A fourth? Start eyes!

What will the Line stretch out to'th' cracke of Doome?

Another yet? A seauenth? Ile see no more:

And yet the eighth appeares, who beares a glasse,

Which shewes me many more: and some I see,

That two-fold Balles, and trebble Scepters carry.

Horrible sight: Now I see 'tis true,

For the Blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles vpon me,

And points at them for his. What? is this so?  1 I Sir, all this is so. But why

Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?

Come Sisters, cheere we vp his sprights,

And shew the best of our delights.

Ile Charme the Ayre to giue a sound,

While you performe your Antique round:

That this great King may kindly say,

Our duties, did his welcome pay.



Musicke. The Witches Dance, and vanish.



  Macb. Where are they? Gone?

Let this pernitious houre,

Stand aye accursed in the Kalender.

Come in, without there.

Enter Lenox.



  Lenox. What's your Graces will



   Macb. Saw you the Weyard Sisters?

  Lenox. No my Lord



   Macb. Came they not by you?

  Lenox. No indeed my Lord



   Macb. Infected be the Ayre whereon they ride,

And damn'd all those that trust them. I did heare

The gallopping of Horse. Who was't came by?

  Len. 'Tis two or three my Lord, that bring you word:

Macduff is fled to England



   Macb. Fled to England?

  Len. I, my good Lord



   Macb. Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits:

The flighty purpose neuer is o're-tooke

Vnlesse the deed go with it. From this moment,

The very firstlings of my heart shall be

The firstlings of my hand. And euen now

To Crown my thoughts with Acts: be it thoght & done:

The Castle of Macduff, I will surprize.

Seize vpon Fife; giue to th' edge o'th' Sword

His Wife, his Babes, and all vnfortunate Soules

That trace him in his Line. No boasting like a Foole,

This deed Ile do, before this purpose coole,

But no more sights. Where are these Gentlemen?

Come bring me where they are.



Exeunt.



Scena Secunda.



Enter Macduffes Wife, her Son, and Rosse.



  Wife. What had he done, to make him fly the Land?

  Rosse. You must haue patience Madam



   Wife. He had none:

His flight was madnesse: when our Actions do not,

Our feares do make vs Traitors



   Rosse. You know not

Whether it was his wisedome, or his feare



   Wife. Wisedom? to leaue his wife, to leaue his Babes,

His Mansion, and his Titles, in a place

From whence himselfe do's flye? He loues vs not,

He wants the naturall touch. For the poore Wren

(The most diminitiue of Birds) will fight,

Her yong ones in her Nest, against the Owle:

All is the Feare, and nothing is the Loue;

As little is the Wisedome, where the flight

So runnes against all reason



   Rosse. My deerest Cooz,

I pray you schoole your selfe. But for your Husband,

He is Noble, Wise, Iudicious, and best knowes

The fits o'th' Season. I dare not speake much further,

But cruell are the times, when we are Traitors

And do not know our selues: when we hold Rumor

From what we feare, yet know not what we feare,

But floate vpon a wilde and violent Sea

Each way, and moue. I take my leaue of you:

Shall not be long but Ile be heere againe:

Things at the worst will cease, or else climbe vpward,

To what they were before. My pretty Cosine,

Blessing vpon you



   Wife. Father'd he is,

And yet hee's Father-lesse



   Rosse. I am so much a Foole, should I stay longer

It would be my disgrace, and your discomfort.

I take my leaue at once.



Exit Rosse.



  Wife. Sirra, your Fathers dead,

And what will you do now? How will you liue?

  Son. As Birds do Mother



   Wife. What with Wormes, and Flyes?

  Son. With what I get I meane, and so do they



   Wife. Poore Bird,

Thou'dst neuer Feare the Net, nor Lime,

The Pitfall, nor the Gin



   Son. Why should I Mother?

Poore Birds they are not set for:

My Father is not dead for all your saying



   Wife. Yes, he is dead:

How wilt thou do for a Father?

  Son. Nay how will you do for a Husband?

  Wife. Why I can buy me twenty at any Market



   Son. Then you'l by 'em to sell againe



   Wife. Thou speak'st withall thy wit,

And yet I'faith with wit enough for thee



   Son. Was my Father a Traitor, Mother?

  Wife. I, that he was



   Son. What is a Traitor?

  Wife. Why one that sweares, and lyes



   Son. And be all Traitors, that do so



   Wife. Euery one that do's so, is a Traitor,

And must be hang'd



   Son. And must they all be hang'd, that swear and lye?

  Wife. Euery one



   Son. Who must hang them?

  Wife. Why, the honest men



   Son. Then the Liars and Swearers are Fools: for there

are Lyars and Swearers enow, to beate the honest men,

and hang vp them



   Wife. Now God helpe thee, poore Monkie:

But how wilt thou do for a Father?

  Son. If he were dead, youl'd weepe for him: if you

would not, it were a good signe, that I should quickely

haue a new Father



   Wife. Poore pratler, how thou talk'st?

Enter a Messenger.



  Mes. Blesse you faire Dame: I am not to you known,

Though in your state of Honor I am perfect;

I doubt some danger do's approach you neerely.

If you will take a homely mans aduice,

Be not found heere: Hence with your little ones

To fright you thus. Me thinkes I am too sauage:

To do worse to you, were fell Cruelty,

Which is too nie your person. Heauen preserue you,

I dare abide no longer.



Exit Messenger



  Wife. Whether should I flye?

I haue done no harme. But I remember now

I am in this earthly world: where to do harme

Is often laudable, to do good sometime

Accounted dangerous folly. Why then (alas)

Do I put vp that womanly defence,

To say I haue done no harme?

What are these faces?

Enter Murtherers.



  Mur. Where is your Husband?

  Wife. I hope in no place so vnsanctified,

Where such as thou may'st finde him



   Mur. He's a Traitor



   Son. Thou ly'st thou shagge-ear'd Villaine



   Mur. What you Egge?

Yong fry of Treachery?

  Son. He ha's kill'd me Mother,

Run away I pray you.



Exit crying Murther.





Scaena Tertia.



Enter Malcolme and Macduffe.


