

   Mal. Oh, by whom?

  Lenox. Those of his Chamber, as it seem'd, had don't:

Their Hands and Faces were all badg'd with blood,

So were their Daggers, which vnwip'd, we found

Vpon their Pillowes: they star'd, and were distracted,

No mans Life was to be trusted with them



   Macb. O, yet I doe repent me of my furie,

That I did kill them



   Macd. Wherefore did you so?

  Macb. Who can be wise, amaz'd, temp'rate, & furious,

Loyall, and Neutrall, in a moment? No man:

Th' expedition of my violent Loue

Out-run the pawser, Reason. Here lay Duncan,

His Siluer skinne, lac'd with His Golden Blood,

And his gash'd Stabs, look'd like a Breach in Nature,

For Ruines wastfull entrance: there the Murtherers,

Steep'd in the Colours of their Trade; their Daggers

Vnmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refraine,

That had a heart to loue; and in that heart,

Courage, to make's loue knowne?

  Lady. Helpe me hence, hoa



   Macd. Looke to the Lady



   Mal. Why doe we hold our tongues,

That most may clayme this argument for ours?

  Donal. What should be spoken here,

Where our Fate hid in an augure hole,

May rush, and seize vs? Let's away,

Our Teares are not yet brew'd



   Mal. Nor our strong Sorrow

Vpon the foot of Motion



   Banq. Looke to the Lady:

And when we haue our naked Frailties hid,

That suffer in exposure; let vs meet,

And question this most bloody piece of worke,

To know it further. Feares and scruples shake vs:

In the great Hand of God I stand, and thence,

Against the vndivulg'd pretence, I fight

Of Treasonous Mallice



   Macd. And so doe I



   All. So all



   Macb. Let's briefely put on manly readinesse,

And meet i'th' Hall together



   All. Well contented.



Exeunt.



  Malc. What will you doe?

Let's not consort with them:

To shew an vnfelt Sorrow, is an Office

Which the false man do's easie.

Ile to England



   Don. To Ireland, I:

Our seperated fortune shall keepe vs both the safer:

Where we are, there's Daggers in mens smiles;

The neere in blood, the neerer bloody



   Malc. This murtherous Shaft that's shot,

Hath not yet lighted: and our safest way,

Is to auoid the ayme. Therefore to Horse,

And let vs not be daintie of leaue-taking,

But shift away: there's warrant in that Theft,

Which steales it selfe, when there's no mercie left.

Enter Rosse, with an Old man.



  Old man. Threescore and ten I can remember well,

Within the Volume of which Time, I haue seene

Houres dreadfull, and things strange: but this sore Night

Hath trifled former knowings



   Rosse. Ha, good Father,

Thou seest the Heauens, as troubled with mans Act,

Threatens his bloody Stage: byth' Clock 'tis Day,

And yet darke Night strangles the trauailing Lampe:

Is't Nights predominance, or the Dayes shame,

That Darknesse does the face of Earth intombe,

When liuing Light should kisse it?

  Old man. 'Tis vnnaturall,

Euen like the deed that's done: On Tuesday last,

A Faulcon towring in her pride of place,

Was by a Mowsing Owle hawkt at, and kill'd
   Rosse. And Duncans Horses,

(A thing most strange, and certaine)

Beauteous, and swift, the Minions of their Race,

Turn'd wilde in nature, broke their stalls, flong out,

Contending 'gainst Obedience, as they would

Make Warre with Mankinde



   Old man. 'Tis said, they eate each other



   Rosse. They did so:

To th' amazement of mine eyes that look'd vpon't.

Enter Macduffe.



Heere comes the good Macduffe.

How goes the world Sir, now?

  Macd. Why see you not?

  Ross. Is't known who did this more then bloody deed?

  Macd. Those that Macbeth hath slaine



   Ross. Alas the day,

What good could they pretend?

  Macd. They were subborned,

Malcolme, and Donalbaine the Kings two Sonnes

Are stolne away and fled, which puts vpon them

Suspition of the deed



   Rosse. 'Gainst Nature still,

Thriftlesse Ambition, that will rauen vp

Thine owne liues meanes: Then 'tis most like,

The Soueraignty will fall vpon Macbeth



   Macd. He is already nam'd, and gone to Scone

To be inuested



   Rosse. Where is Duncans body?

  Macd. Carried to Colmekill,

The Sacred Store-house of his Predecessors,

And Guardian of their Bones



   Rosse. Will you to Scone?   Rosse. Will you to Scone?

  Macd. No Cosin, Ile to Fife



   Rosse. Well, I will thither



   Macd. Well may you see things wel done there: Adieu

Least our old Robes sit easier then our new



   Rosse. Farewell, Father



   Old M. Gods benyson go with you, and with those

That would make good of bad, and Friends of Foes.



Exeunt. omnes



Actus Tertius. Scena Prima.



Enter Banquo.



  Banq. Thou hast it now, King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,

As the weyard Women promis'd, and I feare

Thou playd'st most fowly for't: yet it was saide

It should not stand in thy Posterity,

But that my selfe should be the Roote, and Father

Of many Kings. If there come truth from them,

As vpon thee Macbeth, their Speeches shine,

Why by the verities on thee made good,

May they not be my Oracles as well,

And set me vp in hope. But hush, no more.



Senit sounded. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Lenox, Rosse, Lords,

and

Attendants.



  Macb. Heere's our chiefe Guest



   La. If he had beene forgotten,

It had bene as a gap in our great Feast,

And all-thing vnbecomming



   Macb. To night we hold a solemne Supper sir,
  Macb. To night we hold a solemne Supper sir,

And Ile request your presence



   Banq. Let your Highnesse

Command vpon me, to the which my duties

Are with a most indissoluble tye

For euer knit



   Macb. Ride you this afternoone?

  Ban. I, my good Lord



   Macb. We should haue else desir'd your good aduice

(Which still hath been both graue, and prosperous)

In this dayes Councell: but wee'le take to morrow.

Is't farre you ride?

  Ban. As farre, my Lord, as will fill vp the time

'Twixt this, and Supper. Goe not my Horse the better,

I must become a borrower of the Night,

For a darke houre, or twaine



   Macb. Faile not our Feast



   Ban. My Lord, I will not



   Macb. We heare our bloody Cozens are bestow'd

In England, and in Ireland, not confessing

Their cruell Parricide, filling their hearers

With strange inuention. But of that to morrow,

When therewithall, we shall haue cause of State,

Crauing vs ioyntly. Hye you to Horse:

Adieu, till you returne at Night.

Goes Fleance with you?

  Ban. I, my good Lord: our time does call vpon's



   Macb. I wish your Horses swift, and sure of foot:

And so I doe commend you to their backs.

Farwell.



Exit Banquo.



Let euery man be master of his time,

Till seuen at Night, to make societie

The sweeter welcome:

We will keepe our selfe till Supper time alone:

While then, God be with you.



Exeunt. Lords.



Sirrha, a word with you: Attend those men

Our pleasure?

  Seruant. They are, my Lord, without the Pallace

Gate



   Macb. Bring them before vs.



Exit Seruant.



To be thus, is nothing, but to be safely thus

Our feares in Banquo sticke deepe,

And in his Royaltie of Nature reignes that

Which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,

And to that dauntlesse temper of his Minde,

He hath a Wisdome, that doth guide his Valour,

To act in safetie. There is none but he,

Whose being I doe feare: and vnder him,

My Genius is rebuk'd, as it is said

Mark Anthonies was by Caesar. He chid the Sisters,

When first they put the Name of King vpon me,

And bad them speake to him. Then Prophet-like,

They hayl'd him Father to a Line of Kings.

Vpon my Head they plac'd a fruitlesse Crowne,

And put a barren Scepter in my Gripe,

Thence to be wrencht with an vnlineall Hand,

No Sonne of mine succeeding: if't be so,

For Banquo's Issue haue I fil'd my Minde,

For them, the gracious Duncan haue I murther'd,

Put Rancours in the Vessell of my Peace

Onely for them, and mine eternall Iewell

Giuen to the common Enemie of Man,

To make them Kings, the Seedes of Banquo Kings.

Rather then so, come Fate into the Lyst,

And champion me to th' vtterance.

Who's there?

Enter Seruant, and two Murtherers.



Now goe to the Doore, and stay there till we call.



Exit Seruant.



Was it not yesterday we spoke together?

  Murth. It was, so please your Highnesse



   Macb. Well then,

Now haue you consider'd of my speeches:

Know, that it was he, in the times past,

Which held you so vnder fortune,

Which you thought had been our innocent selfe.

This I made good to you, in our last conference,

Past in probation with you:

How you were borne in hand, how crost:

The Instruments: who wrought with them:

And all things else, that might

To halfe a Soule, and to a Notion craz'd,

Say, Thus did Banquo



   1.Murth. You made it knowne to vs



   Macb. I did so:

And went further, which is now

Our point of second meeting.

Doe you finde your patience so predominant,

In your nature, that you can let this goe?

Are you so Gospell'd, to pray for this good man,

And for his Issue, whose heauie hand

Hath bow'd you to the Graue, and begger'd

Yours for euer?

  1.Murth. We are men, my Liege



   Macb. I, in the Catalogue ye goe for men,

As Hounds, and Greyhounds, Mungrels, Spaniels, Curres,

Showghes, Water-Rugs, and Demy-Wolues are clipt

All by the Name of Dogges: the valued file

Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,

The House-keeper, the Hunter, euery one

According to the gift, which bounteous Nature

Hath in him clos'd: whereby he does receiue

Particular addition, from the Bill,

That writes them all alike: and so of men.

Now, if you haue a station in the file,

Not i'th' worst ranke of Manhood, say't,

And I will put that Businesse in your Bosomes,

Whose execution takes your Enemie off,

Grapples you to the heart; and loue of vs,

Who weare our Health but sickly in his Life,

Which in his Death were perfect



   2.Murth. I am one, my Liege,

Whom the vile Blowes and Buffets of the World

Hath so incens'd, that I am recklesse what I doe,

To spight the World



   1.Murth. And I another,

So wearie with Disasters, tugg'd with Fortune,

That I would set my Life on any Chance,

To mend it, or be rid on't



   Macb. Both of you know Banquo was your Enemie



   Murth. True, my Lord



   Macb. So is he mine: and in such bloody distance,

That euery minute of his being, thrusts

Against my neer'st of Life: and though I could

With bare-fac'd power sweepe him from my sight,

And bid my will auouch it; yet I must not,

For certaine friends that are both his, and mine,

Whose loues I may not drop, but wayle his fall,

Who I my selfe struck downe: and thence it is,

That I to your assistance doe make loue,

Masking the Businesse from the common Eye,

For sundry weightie Reasons



   2.Murth. We shall, my Lord,

Performe what you command vs



   1.Murth. Though our Liues-

  Macb. Your Spirits shine through you.

Within this houre, at most,

I will aduise you where to plant your selues,

Acquaint you with the perfect Spy o'th' time,

The moment on't, for't must be done to Night,

And something from the Pallace: alwayes thought,

That I require a clearenesse; and with him,

To leaue no Rubs nor Botches in the Worke:

  Fleans , his Sonne, that keepes him companie,

Whose absence is no lesse materiall to me,

Then is his Fathers, must embrace the fate

Of that darke houre: resolue your selues apart,

Ile come to you anon


