The sounds about him increased. Stumbling people passed him, speaking

excitedly. “They have surrendered!” “The Council! Surely not the

Council!” “They are saying so in the Ways.” The passage seemed wider.

Suddenly the wall fell away. He was in a great space and people were

stirring remotely. He inquired his way of an indistinct figure. “Strike

straight across,” said a woman’s voice. He left his guiding wall, and in

a moment had stumbled against a little table on which were utensils of

glass. Graham’s eyes, now attuned to darkness, made out a long vista

with pallid tables on either side. He went down this. At one or two of

the tables he heard a clang of glass and a sound of eating. There were

people then cool enough to dine, or daring enough to steal a meal

in spite of social convulsion and darkness. Far off and high up he

presently saw a pallid light of a semi-circular shape. As he approached

this, a black edge came up and hid it. He stumbled at steps and found

himself in a gallery. He heard a sobbing, and found two scared little

girls crouched by a railing. These children became silent at the near

sound of feet. He tried to console them, but they were very still until

he left them. Then as he receded he could hear them sobbing again.



Presently he found himself at the foot of a staircase and near a wide

opening. He saw a dim twilight above this and ascended out of the

blackness into a street of moving Ways again. Along this a disorderly

swarm of people marched shouting. They were singing snatches of the song

of the revolt, most of them out of tune. Here and there torches flared

creating brief hysterical shadows. He asked his way and was twice

puzzled by that same thick dialect. His third attempt won an answer

he could understand. He was two miles from the wind-vane offices in

Westminster, but the way was easy to follow.



When at last he did approach the district of the wind-vane offices it

seemed to him, from the cheering processions that came marching along

the Ways, from the tumult of rejoicing, and finally from the restoration

of the lighting of the city, that the overthrow of the Council must

already be accomplished. And still no news of his absence came to his

ears.



The re-illumination of the city came with startling abruptness. Suddenly

he stood blinking, all about him men halted dazzled, and the world was

incandescent. The light found him already upon the outskirts of the

excited crowds that choked the Ways near the wind-vane offices, and the

sense of visibility and exposure that came with it turned his colourless

intention of joining Ostrog to a keen anxiety.



For a time he was jostled, obstructed, and endangered by men hoarse and

weary with cheering his name, some of them bandaged and bloody in his

cause. The frontage of the wind-vane offices was illuminated by some

moving picture, but what it was he could not see, because in spite

of his strenuous attempts the density of the crowd prevented his

approaching it. From the fragments of speech he caught, he judged it

conveyed news of the fighting about the Council House. Ignorance and

indecision made him slow and ineffective in his movements. For a time he

could not conceive how he was to get within the unbroken facade of this

place. He made his way slowly into the midst of this mass of people,

until he realised that the descending staircase of the central Way led

to the interior of the buildings. This gave him a goal, but the crowding

in the central path was so dense that it was long before he could reach

it. And even then he encountered intricate obstruction, and had an hour

of vivid argument first in this guard room and then in that before he

could get a note taken to the one man of all men who was most eager

to see him. His story was laughed to scorn at one place, and wiser for

that, when at last he reached a second stairway he professed simply to

have news of extraordinary importance for Ostrog. What it was he would

not say. They sent his note reluctantly. For a long time he waited in

a little room at the foot of the lift shaft, and thither at last came

Lincoln, eager, apologetic, astonished. He stopped in the doorway

scrutinising Graham, then rushed forward effusively.



“Yes,” he cried. “It is you. And you are not dead!”



Graham made a brief explanation.



“My brother is waiting,” explained Lincoln. “He is alone in the

wind-vane offices. We feared you had been killed in the theatre. He

doubted--and things are very urgent still in spite of what we are

telling them _there_--or he would have come to you.”



They ascended a lift, passed along a narrow passage, crossed a

great hall, empty save for two hurrying messengers, and entered a

comparatively little room, whose only furniture was a long settee and a

large oval disc of cloudy, shifting grey, hung by cables from the wall.

There Lincoln left Graham for a space, and he remained alone without

understanding the shifting smoky shapes that drove slowly across this

disc.



His attention was arrested by a sound that began abruptly. It was

cheering, the frantic cheering of a vast but very remote crowd, a

roaring exultation. This ended as sharply as it had begun, like a sound

heard between the opening and shutting of a door. In the outer room was

a noise of hurrying steps and a melodious clinking as if a loose chain

was running over the teeth of a wheel.



Then he heard the voice of a woman, the rustle of unseen garments. “It

is Ostrog!” he heard her say. A little bell rang fitfully, and then

everything was still again.



Presently came voices, footsteps and movement without. The footsteps

of some one person detached itself from the other sounds and drew

near, firm, evenly measured steps. The curtain lifted slowly. A tall,

white-haired man, clad in garments of cream coloured silk, appeared,

regarding Graham from under his raised arm.



For a moment the white form remained holding the curtain, then dropped

it and stood before it. Graham’s first impression was of a very broad

forehead, very pale blue eyes deep sunken under white brows, an aquiline

nose, and a heavily-lined resolute mouth. The folds of flesh over the

eyes, the drooping of the corners of the mouth contradicted the

upright bearing, and said the man was old. Graham rose to his feet

instinctively, and for a moment the two men stood in silence, regarding

each other.



“You are Ostrog?” said Graham.



“I am Ostrog.”



“The Boss?”



“So I am called.”



Graham felt the inconvenience of the silence. “I have to thank you

chiefly, I understand, for my safety,” he said presently.



“We were afraid you were killed,” said Ostrog.



“Or sent to sleep again--for ever. We have been doing everything to keep

our secret--the secret of your disappearance. Where have you been? How

did you get here?”



Graham told him briefly.



Ostrog listened in silence.



He smiled faintly. “Do you know what I was doing when they came to tell

me you had come?”



“How can I guess?”



“Preparing your double.”



“My double?”



“A man as like you as we could find. We were going to hypnotise him, to

save him the difficulty of acting. It was imperative. The whole of this

revolt depends on the idea that you are awake, alive, and with us. Even

now a great multitude of people has gathered in the theatre clamouring

to see you. They do not trust... You know, of course--something of your

position?”



“Very little,” said Graham.



“It is like this.” Ostrog walked a pace or two into the room and turned.

“You are absolute owner,” he said, “of more than half the world. As a

result of that you are practically King. Your powers are limited in

many intricate ways, but you are the figure head, the popular symbol of

government. This White Council, the Council of Trustees as it is called.”



“I have heard the vague outline of these things.”



“I wondered.”



“I came upon a garrulous old man.”



“I see... Our masses--the word comes from your days--you know of course,

that we still have masses--regard you as our actual ruler. Just as a

great number of people in your days regarded the Crown as the ruler.

They are discontented--the masses all over the earth--with the rule

of your Trustees. For the most part it is the old discontent, the old

quarrel of the common man with his commonness--the misery of work and

discipline and unfitness. But your Trustees have ruled ill. In certain

matters, in the administration of the Labour Companies, for example,

they have been unwise. They have given endless opportunities. Already we

of the popular party were agitating for reforms--when your waking came.

Came! If it had been contrived it could not have come more opportunity.”

 He smiled. “The public mind, making no allowance for your years of

quiescence, had already hit on the thought of waking you and appealing

to you, and--Flash!”



He indicated the outbreak by a gesture, and Graham moved his head to

show that he understood.



“The Council muddled--quarreled. They always do. They could not decide

what to do with you. You know how they imprisoned you?”



“I see. I see. And now--we win?”


