'I can't argue to-night. I don't mind telling you the story, but

I can't argue. I will,' he went on, 'tell you the story of what

has happened to me, if you like, but you must refrain from

interruptions. I want to tell it. Badly. Most of it will sound like

lying. So be it! It's true--every word of it, all the same. I was in

my laboratory at four o'clock, and since then ... I've lived eight

days ... such days as no human being ever lived before! I'm nearly

worn out, but I shan't sleep till I've told this thing over to you.

Then I shall go to bed. But no interruptions! Is it agreed?'



'Agreed,' said the Editor, and the rest of us echoed 'Agreed.' And

with that the Time Traveller began his story as I have set it forth.

He sat back in his chair at first, and spoke like a weary man.

Afterwards he got more animated. In writing it down I feel with only

too much keenness the inadequacy of pen and ink--and, above all, my

own inadequacy--to express its quality. You read, I will suppose,

attentively enough; but you cannot see the speaker's white,

sincere face in the bright circle of the little lamp, nor hear the

intonation of his voice. You cannot know how his expression followed

the turns of his story! Most of us hearers were in shadow, for the

candles in the smoking-room had not been lighted, and only the face

of the Journalist and the legs of the Silent Man from the knees

downward were illuminated. At first we glanced now and again at each

other. After a time we ceased to do that, and looked only at the

Time Traveller's face.



'I told some of you last Thursday of the principles of the Time

Machine, and showed you the actual thing itself, incomplete in the

workshop. There it is now, a little travel-worn, truly; and one of

the ivory bars is cracked, and a brass rail bent; but the rest of

it's sound enough. I expected to finish it on Friday, but on Friday,

when the putting together was nearly done, I found that one of the

nickel bars was exactly one inch too short, and this I had to get

remade; so that the thing was not complete until this morning. It

was at ten o'clock to-day that the first of all Time Machines began

its career. I gave it a last tap, tried all the screws again, put

one more drop of oil on the quartz rod, and sat myself in the

saddle. I suppose a suicide who holds a pistol to his skull feels

much the same wonder at what will come next as I felt then. I took

the starting lever in one hand and the stopping one in the other,

pressed the first, and almost immediately the second. I seemed to

reel; I felt a nightmare sensation of falling; and, looking round,

I saw the laboratory exactly as before. Had anything happened? For

a moment I suspected that my intellect had tricked me. Then I noted

the clock. A moment before, as it seemed, it had stood at a minute

or so past ten; now it was nearly half-past three!



'I drew a breath, set my teeth, gripped the starting lever with both

hands, and went off with a thud. The laboratory got hazy and went

dark. Mrs. Watchett came in and walked, apparently without seeing

me, towards the garden door. I suppose it took her a minute or so to

traverse the place, but to me she seemed to shoot across the room

like a rocket. I pressed the lever over to its extreme position. The

night came like the turning out of a lamp, and in another moment

came to-morrow. The laboratory grew faint and hazy, then fainter

and ever fainter. To-morrow night came black, then day again, night

again, day again, faster and faster still. An eddying murmur filled

my ears, and a strange, dumb confusedness descended on my mind.



'I am afraid I cannot convey the peculiar sensations of time

travelling. They are excessively unpleasant. There is a feeling

exactly like that one has upon a switchback--of a helpless headlong

motion! I felt the same horrible anticipation, too, of an imminent

smash. As I put on pace, night followed day like the flapping of a

black wing. The dim suggestion of the laboratory seemed presently to

fall away from me, and I saw the sun hopping swiftly across the sky,

leaping it every minute, and every minute marking a day. I supposed

the laboratory had been destroyed and I had come into the open air.

I had a dim impression of scaffolding, but I was already going too

fast to be conscious of any moving things. The slowest snail that

ever crawled dashed by too fast for me. The twinkling succession of

darkness and light was excessively painful to the eye. Then, in the

intermittent darknesses, I saw the moon spinning swiftly through her

quarters from new to full, and had a faint glimpse of the circling

stars. Presently, as I went on, still gaining velocity, the

palpitation of night and day merged into one continuous greyness;

the sky took on a wonderful deepness of blue, a splendid luminous

color like that of early twilight; the jerking sun became a streak

of fire, a brilliant arch, in space; the moon a fainter fluctuating

band; and I could see nothing of the stars, save now and then a

brighter circle flickering in the blue.



'The landscape was misty and vague. I was still on the hill-side

upon which this house now stands, and the shoulder rose above me

grey and dim. I saw trees growing and changing like puffs of vapour,

now brown, now green; they grew, spread, shivered, and passed away.

I saw huge buildings rise up faint and fair, and pass like dreams.

The whole surface of the earth seemed changed--melting and flowing

under my eyes. The little hands upon the dials that registered my

speed raced round faster and faster. Presently I noted that the sun

belt swayed up and down, from solstice to solstice, in a minute or

less, and that consequently my pace was over a year a minute; and

minute by minute the white snow flashed across the world, and

vanished, and was followed by the bright, brief green of spring.



'The unpleasant sensations of the start were less poignant now. They

merged at last into a kind of hysterical exhilaration. I remarked

indeed a clumsy swaying of the machine, for which I was unable to

account. But my mind was too confused to attend to it, so with a

kind of madness growing upon me, I flung myself into futurity. At

first I scarce thought of stopping, scarce thought of anything but

these new sensations. But presently a fresh series of impressions

grew up in my mind--a certain curiosity and therewith a certain

dread--until at last they took complete possession of me. What

strange developments of humanity, what wonderful advances upon our

rudimentary civilization, I thought, might not appear when I came to

look nearly into the dim elusive world that raced and fluctuated

before my eyes! I saw great and splendid architecture rising about

me, more massive than any buildings of our own time, and yet, as it

seemed, built of glimmer and mist. I saw a richer green flow up the

hill-side, and remain there, without any wintry intermission. Even

through the veil of my confusion the earth seemed very fair. And so

my mind came round to the business of stopping.



'The peculiar risk lay in the possibility of my finding some

substance in the space which I, or the machine, occupied. So long

as I travelled at a high velocity through time, this scarcely

mattered; I was, so to speak, attenuated--was slipping like a vapour

through the interstices of intervening substances! But to come to

a stop involved the jamming of myself, molecule by molecule, into

whatever lay in my way; meant bringing my atoms into such intimate

contact with those of the obstacle that a profound chemical

reaction--possibly a far-reaching explosion--would result, and blow

myself and my apparatus out of all possible dimensions--into the

Unknown. This possibility had occurred to me again and again while I

was making the machine; but then I had cheerfully accepted it as an

unavoidable risk--one of the risks a man has got to take! Now the

risk was inevitable, I no longer saw it in the same cheerful light.

The fact is that, insensibly, the absolute strangeness of everything,

the sickly jarring and swaying of the machine, above all, the

feeling of prolonged falling, had absolutely upset my nerve. I told

myself that I could never stop, and with a gust of petulance I

resolved to stop forthwith. Like an impatient fool, I lugged over

the lever, and incontinently the thing went reeling over, and I was

flung headlong through the air.


