As the fans in the circular aperture of the inner room rotated and

permitted glimpses of the night, dim sounds drifted in thereby. And

Graham, standing underneath, wrestling darkly with the unknown powers

that imprisoned him, and which he had now deliberately challenged, was

startled by the sound of a voice.



He peered up and saw in the intervals of the rotation, dark and dim,

the face and shoulders of a man regarding him. When a dark hand was

extended, the swift fan struck it, swung round and beat on with a little

brownish patch on the edge of its thin blade, and something began to

fall therefrom upon the floor, dripping silently.



Graham looked down, and there were spots of blood at his feet. He looked

up again in a strange excitement. The figure had gone.



He remained motionless--his every sense intent upon the flickering patch

of darkness, for outside it was high night. He became aware of some

faint, remote, dark specks floating lightly through the outer air. They

came down towards him, fitfully, eddyingly, and passed aside out of

the uprush from the fan. A gleam of light flickered, the specks flashed

white, and then the darkness came again. Warmed and lit as he was, he

perceived that it was snowing within a few feet of him.



Graham walked across the room and came back to the ventilator again. He

saw the head of a man pass near. There was a sound of whispering. Then

a smart blow on some metallic substance, effort, voices, and the vans

stopped. A gust of snowflakes whirled into the room, and vanished before

they touched the floor. “Don’t be afraid,” said a voice.



Graham stood under the fan. “Who are you?” he whispered.



For a moment there was nothing but a swaying of the fan, and then the

head of a man was thrust cautiously into the opening. His face appeared

nearly inverted to Graham; his dark hair was wet with dissolving flakes

of snow upon it. His arm went up into the darkness holding something

unseen. He had a youthful face and bright eyes, and the veins of his

forehead were swollen. He seemed to be exerting himself to maintain his

position.



For several seconds neither he nor Graham spoke.



“You were the Sleeper?” said the stranger at last.



“Yes,” said Graham. “What do you want with me?”



“I come from Ostrog, Sire.”



“Ostrog?”



The man in the ventilator twisted his head round so that his profile was

towards Graham. He appeared to be listening. Suddenly there was a hasty

exclamation, and the intruder sprang back just in time to escape the

sweep of the released fan. And when Graham peered up there was nothing

visible but the slowly falling snow.



It was perhaps a quarter of an hour before anything returned to the

ventilator. But at last came the same metallic interference again; the

fans stopped and the face reappeared. Graham had remained all this time

in the same place, alert and tremulously excited.



“Who are you? What do you want?” he said.



“We want to speak to you, Sire,” said the intruder.



“We want--I can’t hold the thing. We have been trying to find a way to

you these three days.”



“Is it rescue?” whispered Graham. “Escape?”



“Yes, Sire. If you will.”



“You are my party--the party of the Sleeper?”



“Yes, Sire.”



“What am I to do?” said Graham.



There was a struggle. The stranger’s arm appeared, and his hand was

bleeding. His knees came into view over the edge of the funnel. “Stand

away from me,” he said, and he dropped rather heavily on his hands and

one shoulder at Graham’s feet. The released ventilator whirled noisily.

The stranger rolled over, sprang up nimbly and stood panting, hand to a

bruised shoulder, and with his bright eyes on Graham.



“You are indeed the Sleeper,” he said. “I saw you asleep. When it was

the law that anyone might see you.”



“I am the man who was in the trance,” said Graham. “They have imprisoned

me here. I have been here since I awoke--at least three days.”



The intruder seemed about to speak, heard something, glanced swiftly at

the door, and suddenly left Graham and ran towards it, shouting quick

incoherent words. A bright wedge of steel flashed in his hand, and he

began tap, tap, a quick succession of blows upon the hinges. “Mind!”

 cried a voice. “Oh!” The voice came from above.



Graham glanced up, saw the soles of two feet, ducked, was struck on the

shoulder by one of them, and a heavy weight bore him to the earth. He

fell on his knees and forward, and the weight went over his head. He

knelt up and saw a second man from above seated before him.



“I did not see you, Sire,” panted the man. He rose and assisted Graham

to arise. “Are you hurt, Sire?” he panted. A succession of heavy blows

on the ventilator began, something fell close to Graham’s face, and a

shivering edge of white metal danced, fell over, and lay flat upon the

floor.



“What is this?” cried Graham, confused and looking at the ventilator.

“Who are you? What are you going to do? Remember, I understand nothing.”



“Stand back,” said the stranger, and drew him from under the ventilator

as another fragment of metal fell heavily.



“We want you to come, Sire,” panted the newcomer, and Graham glancing

at his face again, saw a new cut had changed from white to red on his

forehead, and a couple of little trickles of blood starting therefrom.

“Your people call for you.”



“Come where? My people?”



“To the hall about the markets. Your life is in danger here. We have

spies. We learned but just in time. The Council has decided--this very

day--either to drug or kill you. And everything is ready. The people are

drilled, the wind-vane police, the engineers, and half the way-gearers

are with us. We have the halls crowded--shouting. The whole city shouts

against the Council. We have arms.” He wiped the blood with his hand.

“Your life here is not worth--” “But why arms?”



“The people have risen to protect you, Sire. What?”



He turned quickly as the man who had first come down made a hissing

with his teeth. Graham saw the latter start back, gesticulate to them to

conceal themselves, and move as if to hide behind the opening door.



As he did so Howard appeared, a little tray in one hand and his heavy

face downcast. He started, looked up, the door slammed behind him, the

tray tilted sideways, and the steel wedge struck him behind the ear. He

went down like a felled tree, and lay as he fell athwart the floor of

the outer room. The man who had struck him bent hastily, studied his

face for a moment, rose, and returned to his work at the door.



“Your poison!” said a voice in Graham’s ear.



Then abruptly they were in darkness. The innumerable cornice lights

had been extinguished. Graham saw the aperture of the ventilator with

ghostly snow whirling above it and dark figures moving hastily. Three

knelt on the fan. Some dim thing--a ladder was being lowered through the

opening, and a hand appeared holding a fitful yellow light.


