'However, I am telling you of my fruit dinner in the distant future

now. So soon as my appetite was a little checked, I determined to

make a resolute attempt to learn the speech of these new men of

mine. Clearly that was the next thing to do. The fruits seemed a

convenient thing to begin upon, and holding one of these up I began

a series of interrogative sounds and gestures. I had some

considerable difficulty in conveying my meaning. At first my efforts

met with a stare of surprise or inextinguishable laughter, but

presently a fair-haired little creature seemed to grasp my intention

and repeated a name. They had to chatter and explain the business

at great length to each other, and my first attempts to make the

exquisite little sounds of their language caused an immense amount

of amusement. However, I felt like a schoolmaster amidst children,

and persisted, and presently I had a score of noun substantives at

least at my command; and then I got to demonstrative pronouns, and

even the verb "to eat." But it was slow work, and the little people

soon tired and wanted to get away from my interrogations, so I

determined, rather of necessity, to let them give their lessons in

little doses when they felt inclined. And very little doses I found

they were before long, for I never met people more indolent or more

easily fatigued.



'A queer thing I soon discovered about my little hosts, and that was

their lack of interest. They would come to me with eager cries of

astonishment, like children, but like children they would soon stop

examining me and wander away after some other toy. The dinner and my

conversational beginnings ended, I noted for the first time that

almost all those who had surrounded me at first were gone. It is

odd, too, how speedily I came to disregard these little people. I

went out through the portal into the sunlit world again as soon as

my hunger was satisfied. I was continually meeting more of these men

of the future, who would follow me a little distance, chatter and

laugh about me, and, having smiled and gesticulated in a friendly

way, leave me again to my own devices.



'The calm of evening was upon the world as I emerged from the great

hall, and the scene was lit by the warm glow of the setting sun.

At first things were very confusing. Everything was so entirely

different from the world I had known--even the flowers. The big

building I had left was situated on the slope of a broad river

valley, but the Thames had shifted perhaps a mile from its present

position. I resolved to mount to the summit of a crest, perhaps a

mile and a half away, from which I could get a wider view of this

our planet in the year Eight Hundred and Two Thousand Seven Hundred

and One A.D. For that, I should explain, was the date the little

dials of my machine recorded.



'As I walked I was watching for every impression that could possibly

help to explain the condition of ruinous splendour in which I

found the world--for ruinous it was. A little way up the hill, for

instance, was a great heap of granite, bound together by masses of

aluminium, a vast labyrinth of precipitous walls and crumpled

heaps, amidst which were thick heaps of very beautiful pagoda-like

plants--nettles possibly--but wonderfully tinted with brown about

the leaves, and incapable of stinging. It was evidently the derelict

remains of some vast structure, to what end built I could not

determine. It was here that I was destined, at a later date, to have

a very strange experience--the first intimation of a still stranger

discovery--but of that I will speak in its proper place.



'Looking round with a sudden thought, from a terrace on which I

rested for a while, I realized that there were no small houses to be

seen. Apparently the single house, and possibly even the household,

had vanished. Here and there among the greenery were palace-like

buildings, but the house and the cottage, which form such

characteristic features of our own English landscape, had

disappeared.



'"Communism," said I to myself.



'And on the heels of that came another thought. I looked at the

half-dozen little figures that were following me. Then, in a flash,

I perceived that all had the same form of costume, the same soft

hairless visage, and the same girlish rotundity of limb. It may seem

strange, perhaps, that I had not noticed this before. But everything

was so strange. Now, I saw the fact plainly enough. In costume, and

in all the differences of texture and bearing that now mark off the

sexes from each other, these people of the future were alike. And

the children seemed to my eyes to be but the miniatures of their

parents. I judged, then, that the children of that time were

extremely precocious, physically at least, and I found afterwards

abundant verification of my opinion.



'Seeing the ease and security in which these people were living, I

felt that this close resemblance of the sexes was after all what

one would expect; for the strength of a man and the softness of a

woman, the institution of the family, and the differentiation of

occupations are mere militant necessities of an age of physical

force; where population is balanced and abundant, much childbearing

becomes an evil rather than a blessing to the State; where

violence comes but rarely and off-spring are secure, there is less

necessity--indeed there is no necessity--for an efficient family,

and the specialization of the sexes with reference to their

children's needs disappears. We see some beginnings of this even

in our own time, and in this future age it was complete. This, I

must remind you, was my speculation at the time. Later, I was to

appreciate how far it fell short of the reality.



'While I was musing upon these things, my attention was attracted by

a pretty little structure, like a well under a cupola. I thought in

a transitory way of the oddness of wells still existing, and then

resumed the thread of my speculations. There were no large buildings

towards the top of the hill, and as my walking powers were evidently

miraculous, I was presently left alone for the first time. With a

strange sense of freedom and adventure I pushed on up to the crest.



'There I found a seat of some yellow metal that I did not recognize,

corroded in places with a kind of pinkish rust and half smothered

in soft moss, the arm-rests cast and filed into the resemblance of

griffins' heads. I sat down on it, and I surveyed the broad view of

our old world under the sunset of that long day. It was as sweet and

fair a view as I have ever seen. The sun had already gone below the

horizon and the west was flaming gold, touched with some horizontal

bars of purple and crimson. Below was the valley of the Thames, in

which the river lay like a band of burnished steel. I have already

spoken of the great palaces dotted about among the variegated

greenery, some in ruins and some still occupied. Here and there rose

a white or silvery figure in the waste garden of the earth, here and

there came the sharp vertical line of some cupola or obelisk. There

were no hedges, no signs of proprietary rights, no evidences of

agriculture; the whole earth had become a garden.



'So watching, I began to put my interpretation upon the things I had

seen, and as it shaped itself to me that evening, my interpretation

was something in this way. (Afterwards I found I had got only a

half-truth--or only a glimpse of one facet of the truth.)



'It seemed to me that I had happened upon humanity upon the wane.

The ruddy sunset set me thinking of the sunset of mankind. For the

first time I began to realize an odd consequence of the social

effort in which we are at present engaged. And yet, come to think,

it is a logical consequence enough. Strength is the outcome of need;

security sets a premium on feebleness. The work of ameliorating the

conditions of life--the true civilizing process that makes life more

and more secure--had gone steadily on to a climax. One triumph of a

united humanity over Nature had followed another. Things that are

now mere dreams had become projects deliberately put in hand and

carried forward. And the harvest was what I saw!



'After all, the sanitation and the agriculture of to-day are still

in the rudimentary stage. The science of our time has attacked but

a little department of the field of human disease, but even so,

it spreads its operations very steadily and persistently. Our

agriculture and horticulture destroy a weed just here and there and

cultivate perhaps a score or so of wholesome plants, leaving the

greater number to fight out a balance as they can. We improve our

favourite plants and animals--and how few they are--gradually by

selective breeding; now a new and better peach, now a seedless

grape, now a sweeter and larger flower, now a more convenient breed

of cattle. We improve them gradually, because our ideals are vague

and tentative, and our knowledge is very limited; because Nature,

too, is shy and slow in our clumsy hands. Some day all this will

be better organized, and still better. That is the drift of the

current in spite of the eddies. The whole world will be intelligent,

educated, and co-operating; things will move faster and faster

towards the subjugation of Nature. In the end, wisely and carefully

we shall readjust the balance of animal and vegetable life to suit

our human needs.



'This adjustment, I say, must have been done, and done well; done

indeed for all Time, in the space of Time across which my machine

had leaped. The air was free from gnats, the earth from weeds or

fungi; everywhere were fruits and sweet and delightful flowers;

brilliant butterflies flew hither and thither. The ideal of

preventive medicine was attained. Diseases had been stamped out. I

saw no evidence of any contagious diseases during all my stay. And I

shall have to tell you later that even the processes of putrefaction

and decay had been profoundly affected by these changes.



'Social triumphs, too, had been effected. I saw mankind housed in

splendid shelters, gloriously clothed, and as yet I had found them

engaged in no toil. There were no signs of struggle, neither social

nor economical struggle. The shop, the advertisement, traffic, all

that commerce which constitutes the body of our world, was gone. It

was natural on that golden evening that I should jump at the idea of

a social paradise. The difficulty of increasing population had been

met, I guessed, and population had ceased to increase.



'But with this change in condition comes inevitably adaptations to

the change. What, unless biological science is a mass of errors, is

the cause of human intelligence and vigour? Hardship and freedom:

conditions under which the active, strong, and subtle survive and

the weaker go to the wall; conditions that put a premium upon the

loyal alliance of capable men, upon self-restraint, patience, and

decision. And the institution of the family, and the emotions that

arise therein, the fierce jealousy, the tenderness for offspring,

parental self-devotion, all found their justification and support in

the imminent dangers of the young. _Now_, where are these imminent

dangers? There is a sentiment arising, and it will grow, against

connubial jealousy, against fierce maternity, against passion

of all sorts; unnecessary things now, and things that make us

uncomfortable, savage survivals, discords in a refined and pleasant

life.



'I thought of the physical slightness of the people, their lack of

intelligence, and those big abundant ruins, and it strengthened my

belief in a perfect conquest of Nature. For after the battle comes

Quiet. Humanity had been strong, energetic, and intelligent, and had

used all its abundant vitality to alter the conditions under which

it lived. And now came the reaction of the altered conditions.


