Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp; at Lincoln’s pressure he turned towards the

archway, walking unconsciously in that rhythm, scarcely noticing his

movement for the melody and stir of it. The multitude, the gesture and

song, all moved in that direction, the flow of people smote downward

until the upturned faces were below the level of his feet. He was aware

of a path before him, of a suite about him, of guards and dignities, and

Lincoln on his right hand. Attendants intervened, and ever and again

blotted out the sight of the multitude to the left. Before him went the

backs of the guards in black--three and three and three. He was marched

along a little railed way, and crossed above the archway, with the

torrent dipping to flow beneath, and shouting up to him. He did not

know whither he went; he did not want to know. He glanced back across a

flaming spaciousness of hall. Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp.

He was no longer in the hall. He was marching along a gallery

overhanging one of the great streets of the moving platforms that

traversed the city. Before him and behind him tramped his guards. The

whole concave of the moving ways below was a congested mass of people

marching, tramping to the left, shouting, waving hands and arms, pouring

along a huge vista, shouting as they came into view, shouting as they

passed, shouting as they receded, until the globes of electric light

receding in perspective dropped down it seemed and hid the swarming bare

heads. Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp.



The song roared up to Graham now, no longer upborne by music, but coarse

and noisy, and the beating of the marching feet, tramp, tramp, tramp,

tramp, interwove with a thunderous irregularity of footsteps from the

undisciplined rabble that poured along the higher ways.



Abruptly he noted a contrast. The buildings on the opposite side of the

way seemed deserted, the cables and bridges that laced across the aisle

were empty and shadowy. It came into Graham’s mind that these also

should have swarmed with people.



He felt a curious emotion--throbbing--very fast! He stopped again. The

guards before him marched on; those about him stopped as he did. He saw

the direction of their faces. The throbbing had something to do with the

lights. He too looked up.



At first it seemed to him a thing that affected the lights simply, an

isolated phenomenon, having no bearing on the things below. Each huge

globe of blinding whiteness was as it were clutched, compressed in a

systole that was followed by a transitory diastole, and again a systole

like a tightening grip, darkness, light, darkness, in rapid alternation.



Graham became aware that this strange behaviour of the lights had to

do with the people below. The appearance of the houses and ways, the

appearance of the packed masses changed, became a confusion of vivid

lights and leaping shadows. He saw a multitude of shadows had sprung

into aggressive existence, seemed rushing up, broadening, widening,

growing with steady swiftness--to leap suddenly back and return

reinforced. The song and the tramping had ceased. The unanimous march,

he discovered, was arrested, there were eddies, a flow sideways, shouts

of “The lights!” Voices were crying together one thing. “The lights!”

 cried these voices. “The lights!” He looked down. In this dancing death

of the lights the area of the street had suddenly become a monstrous

struggle. The huge white globes became purple-white, purple with a

reddish glow, flickered, flickered faster and faster, fluttered between

light and extinction, ceased to flicker and became mere fading specks

of glowing red in a vast obscurity. In ten seconds the extinction

was accomplished, and there was only this roaring darkness, a black

monstrosity that had suddenly swallowed up those glittering myriads of

men.



He felt invisible forms about him; his arms were gripped. Something

rapped sharply against his shin. A voice bawled in his ear, “It is all

right--all right.”



Graham shook off the paralysis of his first astonishment. He struck his

forehead against Lincoln’s and bawled, “What is this darkness?”



“The Council has cut the currents that light the city. We must

wait--stop. The people will go on. They will--”



His voice was drowned. Voices were shouting, “Save the Sleeper. Take

care of the Sleeper.” A guard stumbled against Graham and hurt his hand

by an inadvertent blow of his weapon. A wild tumult tossed and whirled

about him, growing, as it seemed, louder, denser, more furious each

moment. Fragments of recognisable sounds drove towards him, were whirled

away from him as his mind reached out to grasp them. Voices seemed to be

shouting conflicting orders, other voices answered. There were suddenly

a succession of piercing screams close beneath them.



A voice bawled in his ear, “The red police,” and receded forthwith

beyond his questions.



A crackling sound grew to distinctness, and there with a leaping of

faint flashes along the edge of the further ways. By their light Graham

saw the heads and bodies of a number of men, armed with weapons like

those of his guards, leap into an instant’s dim visibility. The whole

area began to crackle, to flash with little instantaneous streaks of

light, and abruptly the darkness rolled back like a curtain.



A glare of light dazzled his eyes, a vast seething expanse of struggling

men confused his mind. A shout, a burst of cheering, came across the

ways. He looked up to see the source of the light. A man hung far

overhead from the upper part of a cable, holding by a rope the blinding

star that had driven the darkness back. He wore a red uniform.



Graham’s eyes fell to the ways again. A wedge of red a little way along

the vista caught his eye. He saw it was a dense mass of red-clad men

jammed the higher further way, their backs against the pitiless cliff

of building, and surrounded by a dense crowd of antagonists. They were

fighting. Weapons flashed and rose and fell, heads vanished at the edge

of the contest, and other heads replaced them, the little flashes from

the green weapons became little jets of smoky grey while the light

lasted.



Abruptly the flare was extinguished and the ways were an inky darkness

once more, a tumultuous mystery.



He felt something thrusting against him. He was being pushed along the

gallery. Someone was shouting--it might be at him. He was too confused

to hear. He was thrust against the wall, and a number of people

blundered past him. It seemed to him that his guards were struggling

with one another.



Suddenly the cable-hung star-holder appeared again, and the whole scene

was white and dazzling. The band of red-coats seemed broader and nearer;

its apex was half-way down the ways towards the central aisle. And

raising his eyes Graham saw that a number of these men had also appeared

now in the darkened lower galleries of the opposite building, and were

firing over the heads of their fellows below at the boiling confusion of

people on the lower ways. The meaning of these things dawned upon him.

The march of the people had come upon an ambush at the very outset.

Thrown into confusion by the extinction of the lights they were now

being attacked by the red police. Then he became aware that he was

standing alone, that his guards and Lincoln were along the gallery in

the direction along which he had come before the darkness fell. He saw

they were gesticulating to him wildly, running back towards him. A great

shouting came from across the ways. Then it seemed as though the whole

face of the darkened building opposite was lined and speckled with

red-clad men. And they were pointing over to him and shouting. “The

Sleeper! Save the Sleeper!” shouted a multitude of throats.



Something struck the wall above his head. He looked up at the impact and

saw a star-shaped splash of silvery metal. He saw Lincoln near him. Felt

his arm gripped. Then, pat, pat; he had been missed twice.



For a moment he did not understand this. The street was hidden,

everything was hidden, as he looked. The second flare had burned out.



Lincoln had gripped Graham by the arm, was lugging him along the

gallery. “Before the next light!” he cried. His haste was contagious.

Graham’s instinct of self-preservation overcame the paralysis of his

incredulous astonishment. He became for a time the blind creature of

the fear of death. He ran, stumbling because of the uncertainty of the

darkness, blundered into his guards as they turned to run with him.

Haste was his one desire, to escape this perilous gallery upon which he

was exposed. A third glare came close on its predecessors. With it came

a great shouting across the ways, an answering tumult from the ways.

The red-coats below, he saw, had now almost gained the central passage.

Their countless faces turned towards him, and they shouted. The white

facade opposite was densely stippled with red. All these wonderful

things concerned him, turned upon him as a pivot. These were the guards

of the Council attempting to recapture him.



Lucky it was for him that these shots were the first fired in anger for

a hundred and fifty years. He heard bullets whacking over his head, felt

a splash of molten metal sting his ear, and perceived without looking

that the whole opposite facade, an unmasked ambuscade of red police, was

crowded and bawling and firing at him.



Down went one of his guards before him, and Graham, unable to stop,

leapt the writhing body.


