Another man rushed down a cable. Graham suddenly glanced up to see

whence he came, and beheld through the glassy roof and the network of

cables and girders, dim rhythmically passing forms like the vans of

windmills, and between them glimpses of a remote and pallid sky. Then

Howard had thrust him forward across the bridge, and he was in a little

narrow passage decorated with geometrical patterns.



“I want to see more of that,” cried Graham, resisting.



“No, no,” cried Howard, still gripping his arm.



“This way. You must go this way.” And the men in red following them

seemed ready to enforce his orders.



Some negroes in a curious wasp-like uniform of black and yellow appeared

down the passage, and one hastened to throw up a sliding shutter that

had seemed a door to Graham, and led the way through it. Graham found

himself in a gallery overhanging the end of a great chamber. The

attendant in black and yellow crossed this, thrust up a second shutter

and stood waiting.



This place had the appearance of an ante-room. He saw a number of people

in the central space, and at the opposite end a large and imposing

doorway at the top of a flight of steps, heavily curtained but giving a

glimpse of some still larger hall beyond. He perceived white men in

red and other negroes in black and yellow standing stiffly about those

portals.



As they crossed the gallery he heard a whisper from below, “The

Sleeper,” and was aware of a turning of heads, a hum of observation.

They entered another little passage in the wall of this ante-chamber,

and then he found himself on an iron-railed gallery of metal that

passed round the side of the great hall he had already seen through the

curtains. He entered the place at the corner, so that he received

the fullest impression of its huge proportions. The black in the wasp

uniform stood aside like a well-trained servant, and closed the valve

behind him.



Compared with any of the places Graham had see thus far, this second

hall appeared to be decorate with extreme richness. On a pedestal at

the remote end, and more brilliantly lit than any other object, was a

gigantic white figure of Atlas, strong and strenuous, the globe upon his

bowed shoulders. It was the first thing to strike his attention, it was

so vast, so patiently and painfully real, so white and simple. Save for

this figure and for a dais in the centre, the wide floor of the place

was a shining vacancy. The dais was remote in the greatness of the area;

it would have looked a mere slab of metal had it not been for the group

of seven men who stood about a table on it, and gave an inkling of its

proportions. They were all dressed in white robes, they seemed to have

arisen that moment from their seats, and they were regarding Graham

steadfastly. At the end of the table he perceived the glitter of some

mechanical appliances.



Howard led him along the end gallery until they were opposite this

mighty labouring figure. Then he stopped. The two men in red who had

followed them into the gallery came and stood on either hand of Graham.



“You must remain here,” murmured Howard, “for a few moments,” and,

without waiting for a reply, hurried away along the gallery.



“But, _why?_” began Graham.



He moved as if to follow Howard, and found his path obstructed by one of

the men in red. “You have to wait here, Sire,” said the man in red.



_“Why?”_



“Orders, Sire.”



“Whose orders?”



“Our orders, Sire.”



Graham looked his exasperation.



“What place is this?” he said presently. “Who are those men?”



“They are the lords of the Council, Sire.”



“What Council?”



“_The_ Council.”



“Oh!” said Graham, and after an equally ineffectual attempt at the other

man, went to the railing and stared at the distant men in white, who

stood watching him and whispering together.



The Council? He perceived there were now eight, though how the newcomer

had arrived he had not observed. They made no gestures of greeting; they

stood regarding him as in the nineteenth century a group of men might

have stood in the street regarding a distant balloon that had suddenly

floated into view. What council could it be that gathered there, that

little body of men beneath the significant white Atlas, secluded from

every eavesdropper in this impressive spaciousness? And why should he

be brought to them, and be looked at strangely and spoken of inaudibly?

Howard appeared beneath, walking quickly across the polished floor

towards them. As he drew near he bowed and performed certain peculiar

movements, apparently of a ceremonious nature. Then he ascended the

steps of the dais, and stood by the apparatus at the end of the table.



Graham watched that visible inaudible conversation. Occasionally, one

of the white-robed men would glance towards him. He strained his ears

in vain. The gesticulation of two of the speakers became animated. He

glanced from them to the passive faces of his attendants.... When he

looked again Howard was extending his hands and moving his head like

a man who protests. He was interrupted, it seemed, by one of the

white-robed men rapping the table.



The conversation lasted an interminable time to Graham’s sense. His

eyes rose to the still giant at whose feet the Council sat. Thence they

wandered at last to the walls of the hall. It was decorated in long

painted panels of a quasi-Japanese type, many of them very beautiful.

These panels were grouped in a great and elaborate framing of dark

metal, which passed into the metallic caryatidae of the galleries, and

the great structural lines of the interior. The facile grace of these

panels enhanced the mighty white effort that laboured in the centre

of the scheme. Graham’s eyes came back to the Council, and Howard

was descending the steps. As he drew nearer his features could be

distinguished, and Graham saw that he was flushed and blowing out his

cheeks. His countenance was still disturbed when presently he reappeared

along the gallery.



“This way,” he said concisely, and they went on in silence to a little

door that opened at their approach. The two men in red stopped on either

side of this door. Howard and Graham passed in, and Graham, glancing

back, saw the white-robed Council still standing in a close group and

looking at him. Then the door closed behind him with a heavy thud, and

for the first time since his awakening he was in silence. The floor,

even, was noiseless to his feet.



Howard opened another door, and they were in the first of two contiguous

chambers furnished in white and green. “What Council was that?” began

Graham. “What were they discussing? What have they to do with me?”

 Howard closed the door carefully, heaved a huge sigh, and said something

in an undertone. He walked slanting ways across the room and turned,

blowing out his cheeks again. “Ugh!” he grunted, a man relieved.



Graham stood regarding him.



“You must understand,” began Howard abruptly, avoiding Graham’s eyes,

“that our social order is very complex. A half explanation, a bare

unqualified statement would give you false impressions. As a matter of

fact--it is a case of compound interest partly--your small fortune, and

the fortune of your cousin Warming which was left to you--and certain

other beginnings--have become very considerable. And in other ways

that will be hard for you to understand, you have become a person of

significance--of very considerable significance--involved in the world’s

affairs.”



He stopped.



“Yes?” said Graham.



“We have grave social troubles.”



“Yes?”



“Things have come to such a pass that, in fact, is advisable to seclude

you here.”



“Keep me prisoner!” exclaimed Graham.



“Well--to ask you to keep in seclusion.”



Graham turned on him. “This is strange!” he said.



“No harm will be done you.”



“No harm!”



“But you must be kept here--”



“While I learn my position, I presume.”



“Precisely.”



“Very well then. Begin. Why _harm?_”



“Not now.”



“Why not?”



“It is too long a story, Sire.”



“All the more reason I should begin at once. You say I am a person of

importance. What was that shouting I heard? Why is a great multitude

shouting and excited because my trance is over, and who are the men in

white in that huge council chamber?”



“All in good time, Sire,” said Howard. “But not crudely, not crudely.

This is one of those flimsy times when no man has a settled mind. Your

awakening. No one expected your awakening. The Council is consulting.”



“What council?”



“The Council you saw.”



Graham made a petulant movement. “This is not right,” he said. “I should

be told what is happening.



“You must wait. Really you must wait.”



Graham sat down abruptly. “I suppose since I have waited so long to

resume life,” he said, “that I must wait a little longer.”



“That is better,” said Howard. “Yes, that is much better. And I must

leave you alone. For a space. While I attend the discussion in the

Council. I am sorry.”



He went towards the noiseless door, hesitated and vanished.


