He had a moment of hesitation. But the manner of these men, their swift

alacrity, their words, marched so completely with his own fears of

the Council, with his idea and hope of a rescue, that it lasted not a

moment. And his people awaited him!



“I do not understand,” he said, “I trust. Tell me what to do.”



The man with the cut brow gripped Graham’s arm.



“Clamber up the ladder,” he whispered. “Quick. They will have heard--”



Graham felt for the ladder with extended hands, put his foot on the

lower rung, and, turning his head, saw over the shoulder of the nearest

man, in the yellow flicker of the light, the first-comer astride over

Howard and still working at the door. Graham turned to the ladder again,

and was thrust by his conductor and helped up by those above, and then

he was standing on something hard and cold and slippery outside the

ventilating funnel.



He shivered. He was aware of a great difference in the temperature. Half

a dozen men stood about him, and light flakes of snow touched hands and

face and melted. For a moment it was dark, then for a flash a ghastly

violet white, and then everything was dark again.



He saw he had come out upon the roof of the vast city structure which

had replaced the miscellaneous houses, streets and open spaces of

Victorian London. The place upon which he stood was level, with huge

serpentine cables lying athwart it in every direction. The circular

wheels of a number of windmills loomed indistinct and gigantic through

the darkness and snowfall, and roared with a varying loudness as the

fitful white light smote up from below, touched the snow eddies with a

transient glitter, and made an evanescent spectre in the night; and

here and there, low down! some vaguely outlined wind-driven mechanism

flickered with livid sparks.



All this he appreciated in a fragmentary manner as his rescuers stood

about him. Someone threw a thick soft cloak of fur-like texture about

him, and fastened it by buckled straps at waist and shoulders. Things

were said briefly, decisively. Someone thrust him forward.



Before his mind was yet clear a dark shape gripped his arm. “This way,”

 said this shape, urging him along, and pointed Graham across the flat

roof in the direction of a dim semicircular haze of light. Graham

obeyed.



“Mind!” said a voice, as Graham stumbled against a cable. “Between them

and not across them,” said the voice. And, “We must hurry.”



“Where are the people?” said Graham. “The people you said awaited me?”



The stranger did not answer. He left Graham’s arm as the path grew

narrower, and led the way with rapid strides. Graham followed blindly.

In a minute he found himself running. “Are the others coming?” he

panted, but received no reply. His companion glanced back and ran on.

They came to a sort of pathway of open metal-work, transverse to the

direction they had come, and they turned aside to follow this. Graham

looked back, but the snowstorm had hidden the others.



“Come on!” said his guide. Running now, they drew near a little windmill

spinning high in the air. “Stoop,” said Graham’s guide, and they avoided

an endless band running roaring up to the shaft of the vane. “This

way!” and they were ankle deep in a gutter full of drifted thawing snow,

between two low walls of metal that presently rose waist high. “I will

go first,” said the guide. Graham drew his cloak about him and followed.

Then suddenly came a narrow abyss across which the gutter leapt to the

snowy darkness of the further side. Graham peeped over the side once and

the gulf was black. For a moment he regretted his flight. He dared not

look again, and his brain spun as he waded through the half liquid snow.



Then out of the gutter they clambered and hurried across a wide flat

space damp with thawing snow, and for half its extent dimly translucent

to lights that went to and fro underneath. He hesitated at this unstable

looking substance, but his guide ran on unheeding, and so they came to

and clambered up slippery steps to the rim of a great dome of glass.

Round this they went. Far below a number of people seemed to be dancing,

and music filtered through the dome.... Graham fancied he heard a

shouting through the snowstorm, and his guide hurried him on with a new

spurt of haste. They clambered panting to a space of huge windmills, one

so vast that only the lower edge of its vans came rushing into sight and

rushed up again and was lost in the night and the snow. They hurried for

a time through the colossal metallic tracery of its supports, and came

at last above a place of moving platforms like the place into which

Graham had looked from the balcony. They crawled across the sloping

transparency that covered this street of platforms, crawling on hands

and knees because of the slipperiness of the snowfall.



For the most part the glass was bedewed, and Graham saw only hazy

suggestions of the forms below, but near the pitch of the transparent

roof the glass was clear, and he found himself looking sheerly down upon

it all. For awhile, in spite of the urgency of his guide, he gave way

to vertigo and lay spread-eagled on the glass, sick and paralysed. Far

below, mere stirring specks and dots, went the people of the unsleeping

city in their perpetual daylight, and the moving platforms ran on their

incessant journey. Messengers and men on unknown businesses shot along

the drooping cables and the frail bridges were crowded with men. It was

like peering into a gigantic glass hive, and it lay vertically below him

with only a tough glass of unknown thickness to save him from a fall.

The street showed warm and lit, and Graham was wet now to the skin with

thawing snow, and his feet were numbed with cold. For a space he could

not move.



“Come on!” cried his guide, with terror in his voice. “Come on!”



Graham reached the pitch of the roof by an effort.



Over the ridge, following his guide’s example, he turned about and slid

backward down the opposite slope very swiftly, amid a little avalanche

of snow While he was sliding he thought of what would happen if some

broken gap should come in his way. At the edge he stumbled to his feet

ankle deep in slush thanking heaven for an opaque footing again. His

guide was already clambering up a metal screen to a level expanse.



Through the spare snowflakes above this loomed another line of vast

windmills, and then suddenly the amorphous tumult of the rotating wheels

was pierced with a deafening sound. It was a mechanical shrilling of

extraordinary intensity that seemed to come simultaneously from every

point of the compass.



“They have missed us already!” cried Graham’s guide in an accent of

terror, and suddenly, with a blinding flash, the night became day.



Above the driving snow, from the summits of the wind-wheels, appeared

vast masts carrying globes of livid light. They receded in illimitable

vistas in every direction. As far as his eye could penetrate the

snowfall they glared.



“Get on this,” cried Graham’s conductor, and thrust him forward to a

long grating of snowless metal that ran like a band between two slightly

sloping expanses of snow. It felt warm to Graham’s benurrled feet, and a

faint eddy of steam rose from it.



“Come on!” shouted his guide ten yards off, and, without waiting, ran

swiftly through the incandescent glare towards the iron supports of the

next range of wind-wheels. Graham, recovering from his astonishment,

followed as fast, convinced of his imminent capture.



In a score of seconds they were within a tracery of glare and black

shadows shot with moving bars beneath the monstrous wheels. Graham’s

conductor ran on for some time, and suddenly darted sideways and

vanished into a black shadow in the corner of the foot of a huge

support. In another moment Graham was beside him.



They cowered panting and stared out.



The scene upon which Graham looked was very wild and strange. The snow

had now almost ceased; only a belated flake passed now and again across

the picture. But the broad stretch of level before them was a ghastly

white, broken only by gigantic masses and moving shapes and lengthy

strips of impenetrable darkness, vast ungainly Titans of shadow. All

about them, huge metallic structures, iron girders, inhumanly vast as it

seemed to him, interlaced, and the edges of wind-wheels, scarcely moving

in the lull, passed in great shining curves steeper and steeper up

into a luminous haze. Wherever the snow-spangled light struck down,

beams and girders, and incessant bands running with a halting,

indomitable resolution passed upward and downward into the black. And

with all that mighty activity, with an omnipresent sense of motive and

design, this snow-clad desolation of mechanism seemed void of all

human presence save themselves, seemed as trackless and deserted and

unfrequented by men as some inaccessible Alpine snowfield.



“They will be chasing us,” cried the leader. “We are scarcely halfway

there yet. Cold as it is we must hide here for a space--at least until

it snows more thickly again.”



His teeth chattered in his head.


