'Under the new conditions of perfect comfort and security, that

restless energy, that with us is strength, would become weakness.

Even in our own time certain tendencies and desires, once necessary

to survival, are a constant source of failure. Physical courage and

the love of battle, for instance, are no great help--may even be

hindrances--to a civilized man. And in a state of physical balance

and security, power, intellectual as well as physical, would be out

of place. For countless years I judged there had been no danger of

war or solitary violence, no danger from wild beasts, no wasting

disease to require strength of constitution, no need of toil. For

such a life, what we should call the weak are as well equipped as

the strong, are indeed no longer weak. Better equipped indeed they

are, for the strong would be fretted by an energy for which there

was no outlet. No doubt the exquisite beauty of the buildings I saw

was the outcome of the last surgings of the now purposeless energy

of mankind before it settled down into perfect harmony with the

conditions under which it lived--the flourish of that triumph which

began the last great peace. This has ever been the fate of energy in

security; it takes to art and to eroticism, and then come languor

and decay.



'Even this artistic impetus would at last die away--had almost died

in the Time I saw. To adorn themselves with flowers, to dance, to

sing in the sunlight: so much was left of the artistic spirit, and

no more. Even that would fade in the end into a contented

inactivity. We are kept keen on the grindstone of pain and

necessity, and, it seemed to me, that here was that hateful

grindstone broken at last!



'As I stood there in the gathering dark I thought that in this

simple explanation I had mastered the problem of the world--mastered

the whole secret of these delicious people. Possibly the checks they

had devised for the increase of population had succeeded too well,

and their numbers had rather diminished than kept stationary.

That would account for the abandoned ruins. Very simple was my

explanation, and plausible enough--as most wrong theories are!







'As I stood there musing over this too perfect triumph of man, the

full moon, yellow and gibbous, came up out of an overflow of silver

light in the north-east. The bright little figures ceased to move

about below, a noiseless owl flitted by, and I shivered with the

chill of the night. I determined to descend and find where I could

sleep.



'I looked for the building I knew. Then my eye travelled along to

the figure of the White Sphinx upon the pedestal of bronze, growing

distinct as the light of the rising moon grew brighter. I could see

the silver birch against it. There was the tangle of rhododendron

bushes, black in the pale light, and there was the little lawn.

I looked at the lawn again. A queer doubt chilled my complacency.

"No," said I stoutly to myself, "that was not the lawn."



'But it _was_ the lawn. For the white leprous face of the sphinx was

towards it. Can you imagine what I felt as this conviction came

home to me? But you cannot. The Time Machine was gone!



'At once, like a lash across the face, came the possibility of

losing my own age, of being left helpless in this strange new world.

The bare thought of it was an actual physical sensation. I could

feel it grip me at the throat and stop my breathing. In another

moment I was in a passion of fear and running with great leaping

strides down the slope. Once I fell headlong and cut my face; I lost

no time in stanching the blood, but jumped up and ran on, with a

warm trickle down my cheek and chin. All the time I ran I was saying

to myself: "They have moved it a little, pushed it under the bushes

out of the way." Nevertheless, I ran with all my might. All the

time, with the certainty that sometimes comes with excessive dread,

I knew that such assurance was folly, knew instinctively that the

machine was removed out of my reach. My breath came with pain. I

suppose I covered the whole distance from the hill crest to the

little lawn, two miles perhaps, in ten minutes. And I am not a young

man. I cursed aloud, as I ran, at my confident folly in leaving the

machine, wasting good breath thereby. I cried aloud, and none

answered. Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit

world.



'When I reached the lawn my worst fears were realized. Not a trace

of the thing was to be seen. I felt faint and cold when I faced the

empty space among the black tangle of bushes. I ran round it

furiously, as if the thing might be hidden in a corner, and then

stopped abruptly, with my hands clutching my hair. Above me towered

the sphinx, upon the bronze pedestal, white, shining, leprous, in

the light of the rising moon. It seemed to smile in mockery of my

dismay.



'I might have consoled myself by imagining the little people had put

the mechanism in some shelter for me, had I not felt assured of

their physical and intellectual inadequacy. That is what dismayed

me: the sense of some hitherto unsuspected power, through whose

intervention my invention had vanished. Yet, for one thing I felt

assured: unless some other age had produced its exact duplicate,

the machine could not have moved in time. The attachment of the

levers--I will show you the method later--prevented any one from

tampering with it in that way when they were removed. It had moved,

and was hid, only in space. But then, where could it be?



'I think I must have had a kind of frenzy. I remember running

violently in and out among the moonlit bushes all round the sphinx,

and startling some white animal that, in the dim light, I took for a

small deer. I remember, too, late that night, beating the bushes

with my clenched fist until my knuckles were gashed and bleeding

from the broken twigs. Then, sobbing and raving in my anguish of

mind, I went down to the great building of stone. The big hall was

dark, silent, and deserted. I slipped on the uneven floor, and fell

over one of the malachite tables, almost breaking my shin. I lit a

match and went on past the dusty curtains, of which I have told you.



'There I found a second great hall covered with cushions, upon

which, perhaps, a score or so of the little people were sleeping. I

have no doubt they found my second appearance strange enough, coming

suddenly out of the quiet darkness with inarticulate noises and the

splutter and flare of a match. For they had forgotten about matches.

"Where is my Time Machine?" I began, bawling like an angry child,

laying hands upon them and shaking them up together. It must have

been very queer to them. Some laughed, most of them looked sorely

frightened. When I saw them standing round me, it came into my head

that I was doing as foolish a thing as it was possible for me to do

under the circumstances, in trying to revive the sensation of fear.

For, reasoning from their daylight behaviour, I thought that fear

must be forgotten.



'Abruptly, I dashed down the match, and, knocking one of the people

over in my course, went blundering across the big dining-hall again,

out under the moonlight. I heard cries of terror and their little

feet running and stumbling this way and that. I do not remember all

I did as the moon crept up the sky. I suppose it was the unexpected

nature of my loss that maddened me. I felt hopelessly cut off from

my own kind--a strange animal in an unknown world. I must have raved

to and fro, screaming and crying upon God and Fate. I have a memory

of horrible fatigue, as the long night of despair wore away; of

looking in this impossible place and that; of groping among moon-lit

ruins and touching strange creatures in the black shadows; at last,

of lying on the ground near the sphinx and weeping with absolute

wretchedness. I had nothing left but misery. Then I slept, and when

I woke again it was full day, and a couple of sparrows were hopping

round me on the turf within reach of my arm.



'I sat up in the freshness of the morning, trying to remember how

I had got there, and why I had such a profound sense of desertion

and despair. Then things came clear in my mind. With the plain,

reasonable daylight, I could look my circumstances fairly in the

face. I saw the wild folly of my frenzy overnight, and I could

reason with myself. "Suppose the worst?" I said. "Suppose the

machine altogether lost--perhaps destroyed? It behoves me to be

calm and patient, to learn the way of the people, to get a clear

idea of the method of my loss, and the means of getting materials

and tools; so that in the end, perhaps, I may make another." That

would be my only hope, perhaps, but better than despair. And, after

all, it was a beautiful and curious world.


