He stood up, and abruptly he was back in his own wonderland. The

clearness of the kinetoscope drama passed, and the struggle in the vast

place of streets, the ambiguous Council, the swift phases of his waking

hour, came back. These people had spoken of the Council with suggestions

of a vague universality of power. And they had spoken of the Sleeper; it

had not really struck him vividly at the time that he was the Sleeper.

He had to recall precisely what they had said.



He walked into the bedroom and peered up through the quick intervals of

the revolving fan. As the fan swept round, a dim turmoil like the noise

of machinery came in rhythmic eddies. All else was silence.





Though the perpetual day still irradiated his apartments, he perceived

the little intermittent strip of sky was now deep blue--black almost,

with a dust of little stars.



He resumed his examination of the rooms. He could find no way of opening

the padded door, no bell nor other means of calling for attendance.

His feeling of wonder was in abeyance; but he was curious, anxious for

information. He wanted to know exactly how he stood to these new things.

He tried to compose himself to wait until someone came to him. Presently

he became restless and eager for information, for distraction, for fresh

sensations.



He went back to the apparatus in the other room, and had soon puzzled

out the method of replacing the cylinders by others. As he did so, it

came into his mind that it must be these little appliances had fixed the

language so that it was still clear and understandable after two hundred

years. The haphazard cylinders he substituted displayed a musical

fantasia. At first it was beautiful, and then it was sensuous. He

presently recognized what appeared to him to be an altered version of

the story of Tannhauser. The music was unfamiliar. But the rendering was

realistic, and with a contemporary unfamiliarity. Tannhauser did not

go to a Venusberg, but to a Pleasure City. What was a Pleasure City? A

dream, surely, the fancy of a fantastic, voluptuous writer.



He became interested, curious. The story developed with a flavour of

strangely twisted sentimentality. Suddenly he did not like it. He liked

it less as it proceeded.



He had a revulsion of feeling. These were no pictures, no idealisations,

but photographed realities. He wanted no more of the twenty-second

century Venusberg. He forgot the part played by the model in nineteenth

century art, and gave way to an archaic indignation. He rose, angry and

half ashamed at himself for witnessing this thing even in solitude. He

pulled forward the apparatus, and with some violence sought for a means

of stopping its action. Something snapped. A violet spark stung and

convulsed his arm and the thing was still. When he attempted next day

to replace these Tannhauser cylinders by another pair, he found the

apparatus broken....



He struck out a path oblique to the room and paced to and fro,

struggling with intolerable vast impressions. The things he had derived

from the cylinders and the things he had seen, conflicted, confused him.

It seemed to him the most amazing thing of all that in his thirty years

of life he had never tried to shape a picture of these coming times.

“We were making the future,” he said, “and hardly any of us troubled to

think what future we were making. And here it is!”



“What have they got to, what has been done? How do I come into the midst

of it all?” The vastness of street and house he was prepared for,

the multitudes of people. But conflicts in the city ways! And the

systematised sensuality of a class of rich men!



He thought of Bellamy, the hero of whose Socialistic Utopia had so

oddly anticipated this actual experience. But here was no Utopia,

no Socialistic state. He had already seen enough to realise that the

ancient antithesis of luxury, waste and sensuality on the one hand and

abject poverty on the other, still prevailed. He knew enough of the

essential factors of life to understand that correlation. And not only

were the buildings of the city gigantic and the crowds in the street

gigantic, but the voices he had heard in the ways, the uneasiness of

Howard, the very atmosphere spoke of gigantic discontent. What country

was he in? Still England it seemed, and yet strangely “un-English.” His

mind glanced at the rest of the world, and saw only an enigmatical veil.



He prowled about his apartment, examining everything as a caged animal

might do. He felt very tired, felt that feverish exhaustion that does

not admit of rest. He listened for long spaces under the ventilator to

catch some distant echo of the tumults he felt must be proceeding in the

city.



He began to talk to himself. “Two hundred and three years!” he said to

himself over and over again, laughing stupidly. “Then I am two hundred

and thirty-three years old! The oldest inhabitant. Surely they haven’t

reversed the tendency of our time and gone back to the rule of the

oldest. My claims are indisputable. Mumble, mumble. I remember the

Bulgarian atrocities as though it was yesterday. ‘Tis a great age!

Ha ha!” He was surprised at first to hear himself laughing, and then

laughed again deliberately and louder. Then he realised that he was

behaving foolishly. “Steady,” he said. “Steady!”



His pacing became more regular. “This new world,” he said. “I don’t

understand it. _Why?_... But it is all _why!_”



“I suppose they can fly and do all sorts of things Let me try and

remember just how it began.”



He was surprised at first to find how vague the memories of his first

thirty years had become. He remembered fragments, for the most part

trivial moments, things of no great importance that he had observed. His

boyhood seemed the most accessible at first, he recalled school books

and certain lessons in mensuration. Then he revived the more salient

features of his life, memories of the wife long since dead, her magic

influence now gone beyond corruption, of his rivals and friends and

betrayers, of the swift decision of this issue and that, and then of

his, last years of misery, of fluctuating resolves, and at last of his

strenuous studies. In a little while he perceived he had it all again;

dim perhaps, like metal long laid aside, but in no way defective or

injured, capable of re-polishing. And the hue of it was a deepening

misery. Was it worth re-polishing? By a miracle he had been lifted out

of a life that had become intolerable.



He reverted to his present condition. He wrestled with the facts in

vain. It became an inextricable tangle. He saw the sky through the

ventilator pink with dawn. An old persuasion came out of the dark

recesses of his memory. “I must sleep,” he said. It appeared as a

delightful relief from this mental distress and from the growing pain

and heaviness of his limbs. He went to the strange little bed, lay down

and was presently asleep.



He was destined to become very familiar indeed with these apartments

before he left them, for he remained imprisoned for three days. During

that time no one, except Howard, entered his prison. The marvel of his

fate mingled with and in some way minimised the marvel of his survival.

He had awakened to mankind it seemed only to be snatched away into this

unaccountable solitude. Howard came regularly with subtly sustaining and

nutritive fluids, and light and pleasant foods, quite strange to Graham.

He always closed the door carefully as he entered. On matters of detail

he was increasingly obliging, but the bearing of Graham on the great

issues that were evidently being contested so closely beyond the

soundproof walls that enclosed him, he would not elucidate. He evaded,

as politely as possible, every question on the position of affairs in

the outer world.



And in those three days Graham’s incessant thoughts went far and wide.

All that he had seen, all this elaborate contrivance to prevent

him seeing, worked together in his mind. Almost every possible

interpretation of his position he debated--even as it chanced, the right

interpretation. Things that presently happened to him, came to him at

last credible, by virtue of this seclusion. When at length the moment of

his release arrived, it found him prepared.



Howard’s bearing went far to deepen Graham’s impression of his own

strange importance; the door between its opening and closing seemed to

admit with him a breath of momentous happening. His enquiries became

more definite and searching. Howard retreated through protests and

difficulties. The awakening was unforeseen, he repeated; it happened to

have fallen in with the trend of a social convulsion.



“To explain it I must tell you the history of a gross and a half of

years,” protested Howard.



“The thing is this,” said Graham. “You are afraid of something I shall

do. In some way I am arbitrator--I might be arbitrator.”



“It is not that. But you have--I may tell you this much--the automatic

increase of your property puts great possibilities of interference in

your hands. And in certain other ways you have influence, with your

eighteenth century notions.”



“Nineteenth century,” corrected Graham.



“With your old world notions, anyhow, ignorant as you are of every

feature of our State.”



“Am I a fool?”



“Certainly not.”



“Do I seem to be the sort of man who would act rashly?”


