Graham walked to the door, tried it, found it securely fastened in

some way he never came to understand, turned about, paced the room

restlessly, made the circuit of the room, and sat down. He remained

sitting for some time with folded arms and knitted brow, biting his

finger nails and trying to piece together the kaleidoscopic impressions

of this first hour of awakened life; the vast mechanical spaces, the

endless series of chambers and passages, the great struggle that roared

and splashed through these strange ways, the little group of remote

unsympathetic men beneath the colossal Atlas, Howard’s mysterious

behaviour. There was an inkling of some vast inheritance already in

his mind--a vast inheritance perhaps misapplied--of some unprecedented

importance and opportunity. What had he to do? And this room’s secluded

silence was eloquent of imprisonment!



It came into Graham’s mind with irresistible conviction that this series

of magnificent impressions was a dream. He tried to shut his eyes and

succeeded, but that time-honoured device led to no awakening.



Presently he began to touch and examine all the unfamiliar appointments

of the two small rooms in which he found himself.



In a long oval panel of mirror he saw himself and stopped astonished. He

was clad in a graceful costume of purple and bluish white, with a little

greyshot beard trimmed to a point, and his hair, its blackness streaked

now with bands of grey, arranged over his forehead in an unfamiliar but

graceful manner. He seemed a man of five-and-forty perhaps. For a moment

he did not perceive this was himself.



A flash of laughter came with the recognition. “To call on old Warming

like this!” he exclaimed, “and make him take me out to lunch!”



Then he thought of meeting first one and then another of the few

familiar acquaintances of his early manhood, and in the midst of his

amusement realised that every soul with whom he might jest had died

many score of years ago. The thought smote him abruptly and keenly;

he stopped short, the expression of his face changed to a white

consternation.



The tumultuous memory of the moving platforms and the huge facade of

that wonderful street reasserted itself. The shouting multitudes came

back clear and vivid, and those remote, inaudible, unfriendly councilors

in white. He felt himself a little figure, very small and ineffectual,

pitifully conspicuous. And all about him, the world was--strange.



Presently Graham resumed his examination of his apartments. Curiosity

kept him moving in spite of his fatigue. The inner room, he perceived,

was high, and its ceiling dome shaped, with an oblong aperture in the

centre, opening into a funnel in which a wheel of broad fans seemed to

be rotating, apparently driving the air up the shaft. The faint humming

note of its easy motion was the only clear sound in that quiet place. As

these vans sprang up one after the other, Graham could get transient

glimpses of the sky. He was surprised to see a star.



This drew his attention to the fact that the bright lighting of these

rooms was due to a multitude of very faint glow lamps set about the

cornices. There were no windows. And he began to recall that along

all the vast chambers and passages he had traversed with Howard he had

observed no windows at all. Had there been windows? There were windows

on the street indeed, but were they for light? Or was the whole city lit

day and night for evermore, so that there was no night there?



And another thing dawned upon him. There was no fireplace in either

room. Was the season summer, and were these merely summer apartments, or

was the whole City uniformly heated or cooled? He became interested in

these questions, began examining the smooth texture of the walls, the

simply constructed bed, the ingenious arrangements by which the labour

of bedroom service was practically abolished. And over everything was a

curious absence of deliberate ornament, a bare grace of form and

colour, that he found very pleasing to the eye. There were several very

comfortable chairs, a light table on silent runners carrying several

bottles of fluids and glasses, and two plates bearing a clear substance

like jelly. Then he noticed there were no books, no newspapers, no

writing materials. “The world has changed indeed,” he said.



He observed one entire side of the outer room was set with rows of

peculiar double cylinders inscribed with green lettering on white that

harmonized with the decorative scheme of the room, and in the centre of

this side projected a little apparatus about a yard square and having a

white smooth face to the room. A chair faced this. He had a transitory

idea that these cylinders might be books, or a modern substitute for

books, but at first it did not seem so.



The lettering on the cylinders puzzled him. At first sight it seemed

like Russian. Then he noticed a suggestion of mutilated English about

certain of the words.



                   “oi Man huwdbi Kin”



forced itself on him as “The Man who would be King.” “Phonetic

spelling,” he said. He remembered reading a story with that title, then

he recalled the story vividly, one of the best stories in the world. But

this thing before him was not a book as he understood it. He puzzled out

the titles of two adjacent cylinders. ‘The Heart of Darkness,’ he had

never heard of before nor ‘The Madonna of the Future’--no doubt if they

were indeed stories, they were by post Victorian authors.



He puzzled over this peculiar cylinder for some time and replaced it.

Then he turned to the square apparatus and examined that. He opened a

sort of lid and found one of the double cylinders within, and on the

upper edge a little stud like the stud of an electric bell. He pressed

this and a rapid clicking began and ceased. He became aware of voices

and music, and noticed a play of colour on the smooth front face. He

suddenly realised what this might be, and stepped back to regard it.



On the flat surface was now a little picture, very vividly coloured,

and in this picture were figures that moved. Not only did they move, but

they were conversing in clear small voices. It was exactly like reality

viewed through an inverted opera glass and heard through a long tube.

His interest was seized at once by the situation, which presented a

man pacing up and down and vociferating angry things to a pretty but

petulant woman. Both were in the picturesque costume that seemed so

strange to Graham. “I have worked,” said the man, “but what have you

been doing?”



“Ah!” said Graham. He forgot everything else, and sat down in the chair.

Within five minutes he heard himself named, heard “when the Sleeper

wakes,” used jestingly as a proverb for remote postponement, and passed

himself by, a thing remote and incredible. But in a little while he knew

those two people like intimate friends.



At last the miniature drama came to an end, and the square face of the

apparatus was blank again.



It was a strange world into which he had been permitted to see,

unscrupulous, pleasure seeking, energetic, subtle, a world too of dire

economic struggle; there were allusions he did not understand, incidents

that conveyed strange suggestions of altered moral ideals, flashes of

dubious enlightenment. The blue canvas that bulked so largely in his

first impression of the city ways appeared again and again as

the costume of the common people. He had no doubt the story was

contemporary, and its intense realism was undeniable. And the end had

been a tragedy that oppressed him. He sat staring at the blankness.



He started and rubbed his eyes. He had been so absorbed in the

latter-day substitute for a novel, that he awoke to the little green

and white room with more than a touch of the surprise of his first

awakening.


