Then suddenly the trees in the pine wood ahead of me were parted,

as brittle reeds are parted by a man thrusting through them; they were

snapped off and driven headlong, and a second huge tripod appeared,

rushing, as it seemed, headlong towards me.  And I was galloping hard

to meet it! At the sight of the second monster my nerve went

altogether.  Not stopping to look again, I wrenched the horse's head

hard round to the right and in another moment the dog cart had heeled

over upon the horse; the shafts smashed noisily, and I was flung

sideways and fell heavily into a shallow pool of water.



I crawled out almost immediately, and crouched, my feet still in

the water, under a clump of furze.  The horse lay motionless (his neck

was broken, poor brute!) and by the lightning flashes I saw the black

bulk of the overturned dog cart and the silhouette of the wheel still

spinning slowly.  In another moment the colossal mechanism went

striding by me, and passed uphill towards Pyrford.



Seen nearer, the Thing was incredibly strange, for it was no mere

insensate machine driving on its way.  Machine it was, with a ringing

metallic pace, and long, flexible, glittering tentacles (one of which

gripped a young pine tree) swinging and rattling about its strange

body.  It picked its road as it went striding along, and the brazen

hood that surmounted it moved to and fro with the inevitable

suggestion of a head looking about.  Behind the main body was a huge

mass of white metal like a gigantic fisherman's basket, and puffs of

green smoke squirted out from the joints of the limbs as the monster

swept by me.  And in an instant it was gone.



So much I saw then, all vaguely for the flickering of the

lightning, in blinding highlights and dense black shadows.



As it passed it set up an exultant deafening howl that drowned the

thunder--"Aloo!  Aloo!"--and in another minute it was with its

companion, half a mile away, stooping over something in the field.  I

have no doubt this Thing in the field was the third of the ten

cylinders they had fired at us from Mars.



For some minutes I lay there in the rain and darkness watching, by

the intermittent light, these monstrous beings of metal moving about

in the distance over the hedge tops.  A thin hail was now beginning,

and as it came and went their figures grew misty and then flashed into

clearness again.  Now and then came a gap in the lightning, and the

night swallowed them up.



I was soaked with hail above and puddle water below.  It was some

time before my blank astonishment would let me struggle up the bank to

a drier position, or think at all of my imminent peril.



Not far from me was a little one-roomed squatter's hut of wood,

surrounded by a patch of potato garden.  I struggled to my feet at

last, and, crouching and making use of every chance of cover, I made a

run for this.  I hammered at the door, but I could not make the people

hear (if there were any people inside), and after a time I desisted,

and, availing myself of a ditch for the greater part of the way,

succeeded in crawling, unobserved by these monstrous machines, into

the pine woods towards Maybury.



Under cover of this I pushed on, wet and shivering now, towards my

own house.  I walked among the trees trying to find the footpath.  It

was very dark indeed in the wood, for the lightning was now becoming

infrequent, and the hail, which was pouring down in a torrent, fell in

columns through the gaps in the heavy foliage.



If I had fully realised the meaning of all the things I had seen I

should have immediately worked my way round through Byfleet to Street

Cobham, and so gone back to rejoin my wife at Leatherhead.  But that

night the strangeness of things about me, and my physical

wretchedness, prevented me, for I was bruised, weary, wet to the skin,

deafened and blinded by the storm.



I had a vague idea of going on to my own house, and that was as

much motive as I had.  I staggered through the trees, fell into a

ditch and bruised my knees against a plank, and finally splashed out

into the lane that ran down from the College Arms.  I say splashed,

for the storm water was sweeping the sand down the hill in a muddy

torrent.  There in the darkness a man blundered into me and sent me

reeling back.



He gave a cry of terror, sprang sideways, and rushed on before I

could gather my wits sufficiently to speak to him.  So heavy was the

stress of the storm just at this place that I had the hardest task to

win my way up the hill.  I went close up to the fence on the left and

worked my way along its palings.



Near the top I stumbled upon something soft, and, by a flash of

lightning, saw between my feet a heap of black broadcloth and a pair

of boots.  Before I could distinguish clearly how the man lay, the

flicker of light had passed.  I stood over him waiting for the next

flash.  When it came, I saw that he was a sturdy man, cheaply but not

shabbily dressed; his head was bent under his body, and he lay

crumpled up close to the fence, as though he had been flung violently

against it.



Overcoming the repugnance natural to one who had never before

touched a dead body, I stooped and turned him over to feel for his

heart.  He was quite dead.  Apparently his neck had been broken.  The

lightning flashed for a third time, and his face leaped upon me.  I

sprang to my feet.  It was the landlord of the Spotted Dog, whose

conveyance I had taken.



I stepped over him gingerly and pushed on up the hill.  I made my

way by the police station and the College Arms towards my own house.

Nothing was burning on the hillside, though from the common there

still came a red glare and a rolling tumult of ruddy smoke beating up

against the drenching hail.  So far as I could see by the flashes, the

houses about me were mostly uninjured.  By the College Arms a dark

heap lay in the road.



Down the road towards Maybury Bridge there were voices and the

sound of feet, but I had not the courage to shout or to go to them.  I

let myself in with my latchkey, closed, locked and bolted the door,

staggered to the foot of the staircase, and sat down.  My imagination

was full of those striding metallic monsters, and of the dead body

smashed against the fence.



I crouched at the foot of the staircase with my back to the wall,

shivering violently.





I have already said that my storms of emotion have a trick of

exhausting themselves.  After a time I discovered that I was cold and

wet, and with little pools of water about me on the stair carpet.  I

got up almost mechanically, went into the dining room and drank some

whiskey, and then I was moved to change my clothes.



After I had done that I went upstairs to my study, but why I did so

I do not know.  The window of my study looks over the trees and the

railway towards Horsell Common.  In the hurry of our departure this

window had been left open.  The passage was dark, and, by contrast with

the picture the window frame enclosed, the side of the room seemed

impenetrably dark.  I stopped short in the doorway.



The thunderstorm had passed.  The towers of the Oriental College

and the pine trees about it had gone, and very far away, lit by a

vivid red glare, the common about the sand pits was visible.  Across

the light huge black shapes, grotesque and strange, moved busily to

and fro.



It seemed indeed as if the whole country in that direction was on

fire--a broad hillside set with minute tongues of flame, swaying and

writhing with the gusts of the dying storm, and throwing a red

reflection upon the cloud-scud above.  Every now and then a haze of

smoke from some nearer conflagration drove across the window and hid

the Martian shapes.  I could not see what they were doing, nor the

clear form of them, nor recognise the black objects they were busied

upon.  Neither could I see the nearer fire, though the reflections of

it danced on the wall and ceiling of the study.  A sharp, resinous

tang of burning was in the air.



I closed the door noiselessly and crept towards the window.  As I

did so, the view opened out until, on the one hand, it reached to the

houses about Woking station, and on the other to the charred and

blackened pine woods of Byfleet.  There was a light down below the

hill, on the railway, near the arch, and several of the houses along

the Maybury road and the streets near the station were glowing ruins.

The light upon the railway puzzled me at first; there were a black

heap and a vivid glare, and to the right of that a row of yellow

oblongs.  Then I perceived this was a wrecked train, the fore part

smashed and on fire, the hinder carriages still upon the rails.



Between these three main centres of light--the houses, the train,

and the burning county towards Chobham--stretched irregular patches of

dark country, broken here and there by intervals of dimly glowing and

smoking ground.  It was the strangest spectacle, that black expanse set

with fire.  It reminded me, more than anything else, of the Potteries

at night.  At first I could distinguish no people at all, though I

peered intently for them.  Later I saw against the light of Woking

station a number of black figures hurrying one after the other across

the line.



And this was the little world in which I had been living securely

for years, this fiery chaos!  What had happened in the last seven

hours I still did not know; nor did I know, though I was beginning to

guess, the relation between these mechanical colossi and the sluggish

lumps I had seen disgorged from the cylinder.  With a queer feeling of

impersonal interest I turned my desk chair to the window, sat down,

and stared at the blackened country, and particularly at the three

gigantic black things that were going to and fro in the glare about

the sand pits.



They seemed amazingly busy.  I began to ask myself what they could

be.  Were they intelligent mechanisms?  Such a thing I felt was

impossible.  Or did a Martian sit within each, ruling, directing,

using, much as a man's brain sits and rules in his body?  I began to

compare the things to human machines, to ask myself for the first time

in my life how an ironclad or a steam engine would seem to an

intelligent lower animal.



The storm had left the sky clear, and over the smoke of the burning

land the little fading pinpoint of Mars was dropping into the west,

when a soldier came into my garden.  I heard a slight scraping at the

fence, and rousing myself from the lethargy that had fallen upon me, I

looked down and saw him dimly, clambering over the palings.  At the

sight of another human being my torpor passed, and I leaned out of the

window eagerly.



"Hist!" said I, in a whisper.



He stopped astride of the fence in doubt.  Then he came over and

across the lawn to the corner of the house.  He bent down and stepped

softly.



"Who's there?" he said, also whispering, standing under the window

and peering up.



"Where are you going?" I asked.



"God knows."



"Are you trying to hide?"



"That's it."



"Come into the house," I said.



I went down, unfastened the door, and let him in, and locked the

door again.  I could not see his face.  He was hatless, and his coat

was unbuttoned.



"My God!" he said, as I drew him in.



"What has happened?" I asked.



"What hasn't?"  In the obscurity I could see he made a gesture of

despair.  "They wiped us out--simply wiped us out," he repeated again

and again.



He followed me, almost mechanically, into the dining room.



"Take some whiskey," I said, pouring out a stiff dose.



He drank it.  Then abruptly he sat down before the table, put his

head on his arms, and began to sob and weep like a little boy, in a

perfect passion of emotion, while I, with a curious forgetfulness of

my own recent despair, stood beside him, wondering.



It was a long time before he could steady his nerves to answer my

questions, and then he answered perplexingly and brokenly.  He was a

driver in the artillery, and had only come into action about seven.  At

that time firing was going on across the common, and it was said the

first party of Martians were crawling slowly towards their second

cylinder under cover of a metal shield.



Later this shield staggered up on tripod legs and became the first

of the fighting-machines I had seen.  The gun he drove had been

unlimbered near Horsell, in order to command the sand pits, and its

arrival it was that had precipitated the action.  As the limber

gunners went to the rear, his horse trod in a rabbit hole and came

down, throwing him into a depression of the ground.  At the same

moment the gun exploded behind him, the ammunition blew up, there was

fire all about him, and he found himself lying under a heap of charred

dead men and dead horses.



"I lay still," he said, "scared out of my wits, with the fore quarter

of a horse atop of me.  We'd been wiped out.  And the smell--good

God!  Like burnt meat!  I was hurt across the back by the fall of

the horse, and there I had to lie until I felt better.  Just like

parade it had been a minute before--then stumble, bang, swish!"



"Wiped out!" he said.



He had hid under the dead horse for a long time, peeping out

furtively across the common.  The Cardigan men had tried a rush, in

skirmishing order, at the pit, simply to be swept out of existence.

Then the monster had risen to its feet and had begun to walk leisurely

to and fro across the common among the few fugitives, with its

headlike hood turning about exactly like the head of a cowled human

being.  A kind of arm carried a complicated metallic case, about which

green flashes scintillated, and out of the funnel of this there smoked

the Heat-Ray.



In a few minutes there was, so far as the soldier could see, not a

living thing left upon the common, and every bush and tree upon it

that was not already a blackened skeleton was burning.  The hussars

had been on the road beyond the curvature of the ground, and he saw

nothing of them.  He heard the Maxims rattle for a time and then

become still.  The giant saved Woking station and its cluster of houses

until the last; then in a moment the Heat-Ray was brought to bear, and

the town became a heap of fiery ruins.  Then the Thing shut off the

Heat-Ray, and turning its back upon the artilleryman, began to waddle

away towards the smouldering pine woods that sheltered the second

cylinder.  As it did so a second glittering Titan built itself up out

of the pit.



The second monster followed the first, and at that the artilleryman

began to crawl very cautiously across the hot heather ash towards

Horsell.  He managed to get alive into the ditch by the side of the

road, and so escaped to Woking.  There his story became ejaculatory.

The place was impassable.  It seems there were a few people alive

there, frantic for the most part and many burned and scalded.  He was

turned aside by the fire, and hid among some almost scorching heaps of

broken wall as one of the Martian giants returned.  He saw this one

pursue a man, catch him up in one of its steely tentacles, and knock

his head against the trunk of a pine tree.  At last, after nightfall,

the artilleryman made a rush for it and got over the railway

embankment.



Since then he had been skulking along towards Maybury, in the hope

of getting out of danger Londonward.  People were hiding in trenches

and cellars, and many of the survivors had made off towards Woking

village and Send.  He had been consumed with thirst until he found one

of the water mains near the railway arch smashed, and the water

bubbling out like a spring upon the road.



That was the story I got from him, bit by bit.  He grew calmer

telling me and trying to make me see the things he had seen.  He had

eaten no food since midday, he told me early in his narrative, and I

found some mutton and bread in the pantry and brought it into the

room.  We lit no lamp for fear of attracting the Martians, and ever

and again our hands would touch upon bread or meat.  As he talked,

things about us came darkly out of the darkness, and the trampled

bushes and broken rose trees outside the window grew distinct.  It

would seem that a number of men or animals had rushed across the lawn.

I began to see his face, blackened and haggard, as no doubt mine was

also.



When we had finished eating we went softly upstairs to my study,

and I looked again out of the open window.  In one night the valley

had become a valley of ashes.  The fires had dwindled now.  Where

flames had been there were now streamers of smoke; but the countless

ruins of shattered and gutted houses and blasted and blackened trees

that the night had hidden stood out now gaunt and terrible in the

pitiless light of dawn.  Yet here and there some object had had the

luck to escape--a white railway signal here, the end of a greenhouse

there, white and fresh amid the wreckage.  Never before in the history

of warfare had destruction been so indiscriminate and so universal.

And shining with the growing light of the east, three of the metallic

giants stood about the pit, their cowls rotating as though they were

surveying the desolation they had made.



It seemed to me that the pit had been enlarged, and ever and again

puffs of vivid green vapour streamed up and out of it towards the

brightening dawn--streamed up, whirled, broke, and vanished.



Beyond were the pillars of fire about Chobham.  They became pillars

of bloodshot smoke at the first touch of day.






