He wandered for miles along these twilight ways, speaking to no one,

accosted by no one--a dark figure among dark figures--the coveted man

out of the past, the inestimable unintentional owner of half the world.

Wherever there were lights or dense crowds, or exceptional excitement

he was afraid of recognition, and watched and turned back or went up and

down by the middle stairways, into some transverse system of ways at a

lower or higher level. And though he came on no more fighting, the

whole city stirred with battle. Once he had to run to avoid a marching

multitude of men that swept the street. Everyone abroad seemed involved.

For the most part they were men, and they carried what he judged were

weapons. It seemed as though the struggle was concentrated mainly in

the quarter of the city from which he came. Ever and again a distant

roaring, the remote suggestion of that conflict, reached his ears.

Then his caution and his curiosity struggled together. But his caution

prevailed, and he continued wandering away from the fighting--so far as

he could judge. He went unmolested, unsuspected through the dark. After

a time he ceased to hear even a remote echo of the battle, fewer and

fewer people passed him, until at last the Titanic streets became

deserted. The frontages of the buildings grew plain and harsh; he seemed

to have come to a district of vacant warehouses. Solitude crept upon

him--his pace slackened.



He became aware of a growing fatigue. At times he would turn aside

and seat himself on one of the numerous seats of the upper ways. But

a feverish restlessness, the knowledge of his vital implication in his

struggle, would not let him rest in any place for long. Was the struggle

on his behalf alone?



And then in a desolate place came the shock of an earthquake--a roaring

and thundering--a mighty wind of cold air pouring through the city,

the smash of glass, the slip and thud of falling masonry--a series of

gigantic concussions. A mass of glass and ironwork fell from the remote

roofs into the middle gallery, not a hundred yards away from him, and

in the distance were shouts and running. He, too, was startled to an

aimless activity, and ran first one way and then as aimlessly back.



A man came running towards him. His self-control returned. “What have

they blown up?” asked the man breathlessly. “That was an explosion,” and

before Graham could speak he had hurried on.



The great buildings rose dimly, veiled by a perplexing twilight, albeit

the rivulet of sky above was now bright with day. He noted many strange

features, understanding none at the time; he even spelt out many of the

inscriptions in Phonetic lettering. But what profits it to decipher a

confusion of odd-looking letters resolving itself, after painful strain

of eye and mind, into “Here is Eadhamite,” or, “Labour Bureau--Little

Side?” Grotesque thought, that in all probability some or all of these

cliff-like houses were his!



The perversity of his experience came to him vividly. In actual fact he

had made such a leap in time as romancers have imagined again and again.

And that fact realised, he had been prepared, his mind had, as it were,

seated itself for a spectacle. And no spectacle, but a great vague

danger, unsympathetic shadows and veils of darkness. Somewhere through

the labyrinthine obscurity his death sought him. Would he, after all, be

killed before he saw? It might be that even at the next shadowy corner

his destruction ambushed. A great desire to see, a great longing to

know, arose in him.



He became fearful of corners. It seemed to him that there was safety

in concealment. Where could he hide to be inconspicuous when the lights

returned? At last he sat down upon a seat in a recess on one of the

higher ways, conceiving he was alone there.



He squeezed his knuckles into his weary eyes. Suppose when he looked

again he found the dark through of parallel ways and that intolerable

altitude of edifice, gone? Suppose he were to discover the whole story

of these last few days, the awakening, the shouting multitudes, the

darkness and the fighting, a phantasmagoria, a new and more vivid sort

of dream. It must be a dream; it was so inconsecutive, so reasonless.

Why were the people fighting for him? Why should this saner world regard

him as Owner and Master?



So he thought, sitting blinded, and then he looked again, half hoping

in spite of his ears to see some familiar aspect of the life of the

nineteenth century, to see, perhaps, the little harbour of Boscastle

about him, the cliffs of Pentargen, or the bedroom of his home. But fact

takes no heed of human hopes. A squad of men with a black banner tramped

athwart the nearer shadows, intent on conflict, and beyond rose that

giddy wall of frontage, vast and dark, with the dim incomprehensible

lettering showing faintly on its face.



“It is no dream,” he said, “no dream.” And he bowed his face upon his

hands.

He was startled by a cough close at hand.



He turned sharply, and peering, saw a small, hunched-up figure sitting a

couple of yards off in the shadow of the enclosure.



“Have ye any news?” asked the high-pitched wheezy voice of a very old

man.



Graham hesitated. “None,” he said.



“I stay here till the lights come again,” said the old man. “These blue

scoundrels are everywhere--everywhere.”



Graham’s answer was inarticulate assent. He tried to see the old man but

the darkness hid his face. He wanted very much to respond, to talk, but

he did not know how to begin.



“Dark and damnable,” said the old man suddenly. “Dark and damnable.

Turned out of my room among all these dangers.”



“That’s hard,” ventured Graham. “That’s hard on you.”



“Darkness. An old man lost in the darkness. And all the world gone mad.

War and fighting. The police beaten and rogues abroad. Why don’t they

bring some negroes to protect us?... No more dark passages for me. I

fell over a dead man.”



“You’re safer with company,” said the old man, “if it’s company of

the right sort,” and peered frankly. He rose suddenly and came towards

Graham.



Apparently the scrutiny was satisfactory. The old man sat down as if

relieved to be no longer alone. “Eh!” he said, “but this is a terrible

time! War and fighting, and the dead lying there--men, strong men, dying

in the dark. Sons! I have three sons. God knows where they are tonight.”



The voice ceased. Then repeated quavering: “God knows where they are

tonight.”



Graham stood revolving a question that should not betray his ignorance.

Again the old man’s voice ended the pause.



“This Ostrog will win,” he said. “He will win. And what the world will

be like under him no one can tell. My sons are under the wind-vanes,

all three. One of my daughters-in-law was his mistress for a while.

His mistress! We’re not common people. Though they’ve sent me to wander

tonight and take my chance.... I knew what was going on. Before most

people. But this darkness! And to fall over a dead body suddenly in the

dark!”



His wheezy breathing could be heard.



“Ostrog!” said Graham.


