"Stop here," said I; "you are safe here"; and I started off at once

for the Spotted Dog, for I knew the landlord had a horse and dog cart.

I ran, for I perceived that in a moment everyone upon this side of the

hill would be moving.  I found him in his bar, quite unaware of what

was going on behind his house.  A man stood with his back to me,

talking to him.



"I must have a pound," said the landlord, "and I've no one to drive

it."



"I'll give you two," said I, over the stranger's shoulder.



"What for?"



"And I'll bring it back by midnight," I said.



"Lord!" said the landlord; "what's the hurry?  I'm selling my bit

of a pig.  Two pounds, and you bring it back?  What's going on now?"



I explained hastily that I had to leave my home, and so secured the

dog cart.  At the time it did not seem to me nearly so urgent that the

landlord should leave his.  I took care to have the cart there and

then, drove it off down the road, and, leaving it in charge of my wife

and servant, rushed into my house and packed a few valuables, such

plate as we had, and so forth.  The beech trees below the house were

burning while I did this, and the palings up the road glowed red.

While I was occupied in this way, one of the dismounted hussars came

running up.  He was going from house to house, warning people to

leave.  He was going on as I came out of my front door, lugging my

treasures, done up in a tablecloth.  I shouted after him:



"What news?"



He turned, stared, bawled something about "crawling out in a thing

like a dish cover," and ran on to the gate of the house at the crest.

A sudden whirl of black smoke driving across the road hid him for a

moment.  I ran to my neighbour's door and rapped to satisfy myself of

what I already knew, that his wife had gone to London with him and had

locked up their house.  I went in again, according to my promise, to

get my servant's box, lugged it out, clapped it beside her on the tail

of the dog cart, and then caught the reins and jumped up into the

driver's seat beside my wife.  In another moment we were clear of the

smoke and noise, and spanking down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill

towards Old Woking.



In front was a quiet sunny landscape, a wheat field ahead on either

side of the road, and the Maybury Inn with its swinging sign.  I saw

the doctor's cart ahead of me.  At the bottom of the hill I turned my

head to look at the hillside I was leaving.  Thick streamers of black

smoke shot with threads of red fire were driving up into the still

air, and throwing dark shadows upon the green treetops eastward.  The

smoke already extended far away to the east and west--to the Byfleet

pine woods eastward, and to Woking on the west.  The road was dotted

with people running towards us.  And very faint now, but very distinct

through the hot, quiet air, one heard the whirr of a machine-gun that

was presently stilled, and an intermittent cracking of rifles.

Apparently the Martians were setting fire to everything within range

of their Heat-Ray.



I am not an expert driver, and I had immediately to turn my

attention to the horse.  When I looked back again the second hill had

hidden the black smoke.  I slashed the horse with the whip, and gave

him a loose rein until Woking and Send lay between us and that

quivering tumult.  I overtook and passed the doctor between Woking and

Send.



Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill.  The scent of

hay was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, and the

hedges on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog-roses.

The heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down

Maybury Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very

peaceful and still.  We got to Leatherhead without misadventure about

nine o'clock, and the horse had an hour's rest while I took supper

with my cousins and commended my wife to their care.



My wife was curiously silent throughout the drive, and seemed

oppressed with forebodings of evil.  I talked to her reassuringly,

pointing out that the Martians were tied to the Pit by sheer

heaviness, and at the utmost could but crawl a little out of it; but

she answered only in monosyllables.  Had it not been for my promise to

the innkeeper, she would, I think, have urged me to stay in

Leatherhead that night.  Would that I had!  Her face, I remember, was

very white as we parted.



For my own part, I had been feverishly excited all day.  Something

very like the war fever that occasionally runs through a civilised

community had got into my blood, and in my heart I was not so very

sorry that I had to return to Maybury that night.  I was even afraid

that that last fusillade I had heard might mean the extermination of

our invaders from Mars.  I can best express my state of mind by saying

that I wanted to be in at the death.



It was nearly eleven when I started to return.  The night was

unexpectedly dark; to me, walking out of the lighted passage of my

cousins' house, it seemed indeed black, and it was as hot and close as

the day.  Overhead the clouds were driving fast, albeit not a breath

stirred the shrubs about us.  My cousins' man lit both lamps.  Happily,

I knew the road intimately.  My wife stood in the light of the

doorway, and watched me until I jumped up into the dog cart.  Then

abruptly she turned and went in, leaving my cousins side by side

wishing me good hap.



I was a little depressed at first with the contagion of my wife's

fears, but very soon my thoughts reverted to the Martians.  At that

time I was absolutely in the dark as to the course of the evening's

fighting.  I did not know even the circumstances that had precipitated

the conflict.  As I came through Ockham (for that was the way I

returned, and not through Send and Old Woking) I saw along the western

horizon a blood-red glow, which as I drew nearer, crept slowly up the

sky.  The driving clouds of the gathering thunderstorm mingled there

with masses of black and red smoke.



Ripley Street was deserted, and except for a lighted window or so

the village showed not a sign of life; but I narrowly escaped an

accident at the corner of the road to Pyrford, where a knot of people

stood with their backs to me.  They said nothing to me as I passed.  I

do not know what they knew of the things happening beyond the hill,

nor do I know if the silent houses I passed on my way were sleeping

securely, or deserted and empty, or harassed and watching against the

terror of the night.



From Ripley until I came through Pyrford I was in the valley of the

Wey, and the red glare was hidden from me.  As I ascended the little

hill beyond Pyrford Church the glare came into view again, and the

trees about me shivered with the first intimation of the storm that

was upon me.  Then I heard midnight pealing out from Pyrford Church

behind me, and then came the silhouette of Maybury Hill, with its

tree-tops and roofs black and sharp against the red.



Even as I beheld this a lurid green glare lit the road about me and

showed the distant woods towards Addlestone.  I felt a tug at the

reins.  I saw that the driving clouds had been pierced as it were by a

thread of green fire, suddenly lighting their confusion and falling

into the field to my left.  It was the third falling star!



Close on its apparition, and blindingly violet by contrast, danced

out the first lightning of the gathering storm, and the thunder burst

like a rocket overhead.  The horse took the bit between his teeth and

bolted.



A moderate incline runs towards the foot of Maybury Hill, and down

this we clattered.  Once the lightning had begun, it went on in as

rapid a succession of flashes as I have ever seen.  The thunderclaps,

treading one on the heels of another and with a strange crackling

accompaniment, sounded more like the working of a gigantic electric

machine than the usual detonating reverberations.  The flickering

light was blinding and confusing, and a thin hail smote gustily at my

face as I drove down the slope.



At first I regarded little but the road before me, and then

abruptly my attention was arrested by something that was moving

rapidly down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill.  At first I took it

for the wet roof of a house, but one flash following another showed it

to be in swift rolling movement.  It was an elusive vision--a moment

of bewildering darkness, and then, in a flash like daylight, the red

masses of the Orphanage near the crest of the hill, the green tops of

the pine trees, and this problematical object came out clear and sharp

and bright.



And this Thing I saw!  How can I describe it?  A monstrous tripod,

higher than many houses, striding over the young pine trees, and

smashing them aside in its career; a walking engine of glittering

metal, striding now across the heather; articulate ropes of steel

dangling from it, and the clattering tumult of its passage mingling

with the riot of the thunder.  A flash, and it came out vividly,

heeling over one way with two feet in the air, to vanish and reappear

almost instantly as it seemed, with the next flash, a hundred yards

nearer.  Can you imagine a milking stool tilted and bowled violently

along the ground?  That was the impression those instant flashes gave.

But instead of a milking stool imagine it a great body of machinery on

a tripod stand.
