For a space Graham stood without a movement. Then he became vividly

aware that all this concerned him. He was pleased at his wonderful

popularity, he bowed, and, seeking a gesture of longer range, waved his

arm. He was astonished at the violence of uproar that this provoked. The

tumult about the descending stairway rose to furious violence. He

became aware of crowded balconies, of men sliding along ropes, of men

in trapeze-like seats hurling athwart the space. He heard voices behind

him, a number of people descending the steps through the archway; he

suddenly perceived that his guardian Howard was back again and gripping

his arm painfully, and shouting inaudibly in his ear.



He turned, and Howard’s face was white. “Come back,” he heard. “They

will stop the ways. The whole city will be in confusion.”



He perceived a number of men hurrying along the passage of blue pillars

behind Howard, the red-haired man, the man with the flaxen beard, a tall

man in vivid vermilion, a crowd of others in red carrying staves, and

all these people had anxious eager faces.



“Get him away,” cried Howard.



“But why?” said Graham. “I don’t see--”



“You must come away!” said the man in red in a resolute voice. His face

and eyes were resolute, too. Graham’s glances went from face to face,

and he was suddenly aware of that most disagreeable flavour in life,

compulsion. Some one gripped his arm.... He was being dragged away. It

seemed as though the tumult suddenly became two, as if half the shouts

that had come in from this wonderful roadway had sprung into the

passages of the great building behind him. Marvelling and confused,

feeling an impotent desire to resist, Graham was half led, half thrust,

along the passage of blue pillars, and suddenly he found himself alone

with Howard in a lift and moving swiftly upward.

From the moment when the tailor had bowed his farewell to the moment

when Graham found himself in the lift, was altogether barely five

minutes. And as yet the haze of his vast interval of sleep hung about

him, as yet the initial strangeness of his being alive at all in

this remote age touched everything with wonder, with a sense of the

irrational, with something of the quality of a realistic dream. He was

still detached, an astonished spectator, still but half involved in

life. What he had seen, and especially the last crowded tumult, framed

in the setting of the balcony, had a spectacular turn, like a thing

witnessed from the box of a theatre. “I don’t understand,” he said.

“What was the trouble? My mind is in a whirl. Why were they shouting?

What is the danger?”



“We have our troubles,” said Howard. His eyes avoided Graham’s enquiry.

“This is a time of unrest. And, in fact, your appearance, your waking

just now, has a sort of connexion--”



He spoke jerkily, like a man not quite sure of his breathing. He stopped

abruptly.



“I don’t understand,” said Graham.



“It will be clearer later,” said Howard.



He glanced uneasily upward, as though he found the progress of the lift

slow.



“I shall understand better, no doubt, when I have seen my way about

a little,” said Graham puzzled. “It will be--it is bound to be

perplexing. At present it is all so strange. Anything seems possible.

Anything. In the details even. Your counting, I understand, is

different.”



The lift stopped, and they stepped out into a narrow but very long

passage between high walls, along which ran an extraordinary number of

tubes and big cables.



“What a huge place this is!” said Graham. “Is it all one building? What

place is it?”



“This is one of the city ways for various public services. Light and so

forth.”



“Was it a social trouble--that--in the great roadway place? How are you

governed? Have you still a police?” “Several,” said Howard.



“Several?”



“About fourteen.”



“I don’t understand.”



“Very probably not. Our social order will probably seem very complex to

you. To tell you the truth, I don’t understand it myself very clearly.

Nobody does. You will, perhaps--bye and bye. We have to go to the

Council.”



Graham’s attention was divided between the urgent necessity of his

inquiries and the people in the passages and halls they were traversing.

For a moment his mind would be concentrated upon Howard and the halting

answers he made, and then he would lose the thread in response to some

vivid unexpected impression. Along the passages, in the halls, half the

people seemed to be men in the red uniform. The pale blue canvas

that had been so abundant in the aisle of moving ways did not appear.

Invariably these men looked at him, and saluted him and Howard as they

passed.



He had a clear vision of entering a long corridor, and there were a

number of girls sitting on low seats and as though in a class. He saw

no teacher, but only a novel apparatus from which he fancied a voice

proceeded. The girls regarded him and his conductor, he thought, with

curiosity and astonishment. But he was hurried on before he could form a

clear idea of the gathering. He judged they knew Howard and not himself,

and that they wondered who he was. This Howard, it seemed, was a person

of importance. But then he was also merely Graham’s guardian. That was

odd.



There came a passage in twilight, and into this passage a footway hung

so that he could see the feet and ankles of people going to and fro

thereon, but no more of them. Then vague impressions of galleries and

of casual astonished passers-by turning round to stare after the two of

them with their red-clad guard.



The stimulus of the restoratives he had taken was only temporary. He was

speedily fatigued by this excessive haste. He asked Howard to slacken

his speed. Presently he was in a lift that had a window upon the great

street space, but this was glazed and did not open, and they were too

high for him to see the moving platforms below. But he saw people going

to and fro along cables and along strange, frail-looking ridges.



And thence they passed across the street and at a vast height above it.

They crossed by means of a narrow bridge closed in with glass, so clear

that it made him giddy even to remember it. The floor of it also was of

glass. From his memory of the cliffs between New Quay and Boscastle, so

remote in time, and so recent in his experience, it seemed to him that

they must be near four hundred feet above the moving ways. He stopped,

looked down between his legs upon the swarming blue and red multitudes,

minute and fore-shortened, struggling and gesticulating still towards

the little balcony far below, a little toy balcony, it seemed, where he

had so recently been standing. A thin haze and the glare of the mighty

globes of light obscured everything. A man seated in a little open-work

cradle shot by from some point still higher than the little narrow

bridge, rushing down a cable as swiftly almost as if he were falling.

Graham stopped involuntarily to watch this strange passenger vanish in

a great circular opening below, and then his eyes went back to the

tumultuous struggle.



Along one of the swifter ways rushed a thick crowd of red spots. This

broke up into individuals as it approached the balcony, and went pouring

down the slower ways towards the dense struggling crowd on the central

area. These men in red appeared to be armed with sticks or truncheons;

they seemed to be striking and thrusting. A great shouting, cries of

wrath, screaming, burst out and came up to Graham, faint and thin. “Go

on,” cried Howard, laying hands on him.


