'This happened in the morning. In the afternoon I met my little

woman, as I believe it was, as I was returning towards my centre

from an exploration, and she received me with cries of delight and

presented me with a big garland of flowers--evidently made for me

and me alone. The thing took my imagination. Very possibly I had

been feeling desolate. At any rate I did my best to display my

appreciation of the gift. We were soon seated together in a little

stone arbour, engaged in conversation, chiefly of smiles. The

creature's friendliness affected me exactly as a child's might have

done. We passed each other flowers, and she kissed my hands. I did

the same to hers. Then I tried talk, and found that her name was

Weena, which, though I don't know what it meant, somehow seemed

appropriate enough. That was the beginning of a queer friendship

which lasted a week, and ended--as I will tell you!



'She was exactly like a child. She wanted to be with me always. She

tried to follow me everywhere, and on my next journey out and about

it went to my heart to tire her down, and leave her at last,

exhausted and calling after me rather plaintively. But the problems

of the world had to be mastered. I had not, I said to myself, come

into the future to carry on a miniature flirtation. Yet her distress

when I left her was very great, her expostulations at the parting

were sometimes frantic, and I think, altogether, I had as much

trouble as comfort from her devotion. Nevertheless she was, somehow,

a very great comfort. I thought it was mere childish affection that

made her cling to me. Until it was too late, I did not clearly know

what I had inflicted upon her when I left her. Nor until it was too

late did I clearly understand what she was to me. For, by merely

seeming fond of me, and showing in her weak, futile way that she

cared for me, the little doll of a creature presently gave my return

to the neighbourhood of the White Sphinx almost the feeling of

coming home; and I would watch for her tiny figure of white and gold

so soon as I came over the hill.



'It was from her, too, that I learned that fear had not yet left the

world. She was fearless enough in the daylight, and she had the

oddest confidence in me; for once, in a foolish moment, I made

threatening grimaces at her, and she simply laughed at them. But she

dreaded the dark, dreaded shadows, dreaded black things. Darkness

to her was the one thing dreadful. It was a singularly passionate

emotion, and it set me thinking and observing. I discovered then,

among other things, that these little people gathered into the great

houses after dark, and slept in droves. To enter upon them without a

light was to put them into a tumult of apprehension. I never found

one out of doors, or one sleeping alone within doors, after dark.

Yet I was still such a blockhead that I missed the lesson of that

fear, and in spite of Weena's distress I insisted upon sleeping away

from these slumbering multitudes.



'It troubled her greatly, but in the end her odd affection for me

triumphed, and for five of the nights of our acquaintance, including

the last night of all, she slept with her head pillowed on my arm.

But my story slips away from me as I speak of her. It must have been

the night before her rescue that I was awakened about dawn. I had

been restless, dreaming most disagreeably that I was drowned, and

that sea anemones were feeling over my face with their soft palps.

I woke with a start, and with an odd fancy that some greyish animal

had just rushed out of the chamber. I tried to get to sleep again,

but I felt restless and uncomfortable. It was that dim grey hour

when things are just creeping out of darkness, when everything is

colourless and clear cut, and yet unreal. I got up, and went down

into the great hall, and so out upon the flagstones in front of the

palace. I thought I would make a virtue of necessity, and see the

sunrise.



'The moon was setting, and the dying moonlight and the first pallor

of dawn were mingled in a ghastly half-light. The bushes were inky

black, the ground a sombre grey, the sky colourless and cheerless.

And up the hill I thought I could see ghosts. There several times,

as I scanned the slope, I saw white figures. Twice I fancied I saw

a solitary white, ape-like creature running rather quickly up the

hill, and once near the ruins I saw a leash of them carrying some

dark body. They moved hastily. I did not see what became of them.

It seemed that they vanished among the bushes. The dawn was still

indistinct, you must understand. I was feeling that chill,

uncertain, early-morning feeling you may have known. I doubted

my eyes.



'As the eastern sky grew brighter, and the light of the day came on

and its vivid colouring returned upon the world once more, I scanned

the view keenly. But I saw no vestige of my white figures. They were

mere creatures of the half light. "They must have been ghosts," I

said; "I wonder whence they dated." For a queer notion of Grant

Allen's came into my head, and amused me. If each generation die and

leave ghosts, he argued, the world at last will get overcrowded with

them. On that theory they would have grown innumerable some Eight

Hundred Thousand Years hence, and it was no great wonder to see four

at once. But the jest was unsatisfying, and I was thinking of these

figures all the morning, until Weena's rescue drove them out of my

head. I associated them in some indefinite way with the white animal

I had startled in my first passionate search for the Time Machine.

But Weena was a pleasant substitute. Yet all the same, they were

soon destined to take far deadlier possession of my mind.



'I think I have said how much hotter than our own was the weather

of this Golden Age. I cannot account for it. It may be that the sun

was hotter, or the earth nearer the sun. It is usual to assume that

the sun will go on cooling steadily in the future. But people,

unfamiliar with such speculations as those of the younger Darwin,

forget that the planets must ultimately fall back one by one into

the parent body. As these catastrophes occur, the sun will blaze

with renewed energy; and it may be that some inner planet had

suffered this fate. Whatever the reason, the fact remains that the

sun was very much hotter than we know it.



'Well, one very hot morning--my fourth, I think--as I was seeking

shelter from the heat and glare in a colossal ruin near the great

house where I slept and fed, there happened this strange thing:

Clambering among these heaps of masonry, I found a narrow gallery,

whose end and side windows were blocked by fallen masses of stone.

By contrast with the brilliancy outside, it seemed at first

impenetrably dark to me. I entered it groping, for the change from

light to blackness made spots of colour swim before me. Suddenly I

halted spellbound. A pair of eyes, luminous by reflection against

the daylight without, was watching me out of the darkness.



'The old instinctive dread of wild beasts came upon me. I clenched

my hands and steadfastly looked into the glaring eyeballs. I was

afraid to turn. Then the thought of the absolute security in which

humanity appeared to be living came to my mind. And then I

remembered that strange terror of the dark. Overcoming my fear to

some extent, I advanced a step and spoke. I will admit that my

voice was harsh and ill-controlled. I put out my hand and touched

something soft. At once the eyes darted sideways, and something

white ran past me. I turned with my heart in my mouth, and saw a

queer little ape-like figure, its head held down in a peculiar

manner, running across the sunlit space behind me. It blundered

against a block of granite, staggered aside, and in a moment was

hidden in a black shadow beneath another pile of ruined masonry.



'My impression of it is, of course, imperfect; but I know it was a

dull white, and had strange large greyish-red eyes; also that there

was flaxen hair on its head and down its back. But, as I say, it

went too fast for me to see distinctly. I cannot even say whether it

ran on all-fours, or only with its forearms held very low. After an

instant's pause I followed it into the second heap of ruins. I could

not find it at first; but, after a time in the profound obscurity, I

came upon one of those round well-like openings of which I have told

you, half closed by a fallen pillar. A sudden thought came to me.

Could this Thing have vanished down the shaft? I lit a match, and,

looking down, I saw a small, white, moving creature, with large

bright eyes which regarded me steadfastly as it retreated. It made

me shudder. It was so like a human spider! It was clambering down

the wall, and now I saw for the first time a number of metal foot

and hand rests forming a kind of ladder down the shaft. Then the

light burned my fingers and fell out of my hand, going out as it

dropped, and when I had lit another the little monster had

disappeared.



'I do not know how long I sat peering down that well. It was not for

some time that I could succeed in persuading myself that the thing I

had seen was human. But, gradually, the truth dawned on me: that

Man had not remained one species, but had differentiated into two

distinct animals: that my graceful children of the Upper-world were

not the sole descendants of our generation, but that this bleached,

obscene, nocturnal Thing, which had flashed before me, was also heir

to all the ages.



'I thought of the flickering pillars and of my theory of an

underground ventilation. I began to suspect their true import. And

what, I wondered, was this Lemur doing in my scheme of a perfectly

balanced organization? How was it related to the indolent serenity

of the beautiful Upper-worlders? And what was hidden down there,

at the foot of that shaft? I sat upon the edge of the well telling

myself that, at any rate, there was nothing to fear, and that there

I must descend for the solution of my difficulties. And withal I

was absolutely afraid to go! As I hesitated, two of the beautiful

Upper-world people came running in their amorous sport across the

daylight in the shadow. The male pursued the female, flinging

flowers at her as he ran.



'They seemed distressed to find me, my arm against the overturned

pillar, peering down the well. Apparently it was considered bad form

to remark these apertures; for when I pointed to this one, and tried

to frame a question about it in their tongue, they were still more

visibly distressed and turned away. But they were interested by my

matches, and I struck some to amuse them. I tried them again about

the well, and again I failed. So presently I left them, meaning to

go back to Weena, and see what I could get from her. But my mind was

already in revolution; my guesses and impressions were slipping and

sliding to a new adjustment. I had now a clue to the import of these

wells, to the ventilating towers, to the mystery of the ghosts; to

say nothing of a hint at the meaning of the bronze gates and the

fate of the Time Machine! And very vaguely there came a suggestion

towards the solution of the economic problem that had puzzled me.


