WHAT I SAW OF THE DESTRUCTION OF WEYBRIDGE AND SHEPPERTON





As the dawn grew brighter we withdrew from the window from which we

had watched the Martians, and went very quietly downstairs.



The artilleryman agreed with me that the house was no place to stay

in.  He proposed, he said, to make his way Londonward, and thence

rejoin his battery--No. 12, of the Horse Artillery.  My plan was to

return at once to Leatherhead; and so greatly had the strength of the

Martians impressed me that I had determined to take my wife to

Newhaven, and go with her out of the country forthwith.  For I already

perceived clearly that the country about London must inevitably be the

scene of a disastrous struggle before such creatures as these could be

destroyed.



Between us and Leatherhead, however, lay the third cylinder, with

its guarding giants.  Had I been alone, I think I should have taken my

chance and struck across country.  But the artilleryman dissuaded me:

"It's no kindness to the right sort of wife," he said, "to make her a

widow"; and in the end I agreed to go with him, under cover of the

woods, northward as far as Street Cobham before I parted with him.

Thence I would make a big detour by Epsom to reach Leatherhead.



I should have started at once, but my companion had been in active

service and he knew better than that.  He made me ransack the house

for a flask, which he filled with whiskey; and we lined every

available pocket with packets of biscuits and slices of meat.  Then

we crept out of the house, and ran as quickly as we could down the

ill-made road by which I had come overnight.  The houses seemed

deserted. In the road lay a group of three charred bodies close

together, struck dead by the Heat-Ray; and here and there were things

that people had dropped--a clock, a slipper, a silver spoon, and the

like poor valuables.  At the corner turning up towards the post

office a little cart, filled with boxes and furniture, and horseless,

heeled over on a broken wheel.  A cash box had been hastily smashed

open and thrown under the debris.



Except the lodge at the Orphanage, which was still on fire, none of

the houses had suffered very greatly here.  The Heat-Ray had shaved

the chimney tops and passed.  Yet, save ourselves, there did not seem

to be a living soul on Maybury Hill.  The majority of the inhabitants

had escaped, I suppose, by way of the Old Woking road--the road I had

taken when I drove to Leatherhead--or they had hidden.



We went down the lane, by the body of the man in black, sodden now

from the overnight hail, and broke into the woods at the foot of the

hill.  We pushed through these towards the railway without meeting a

soul.  The woods across the line were but the scarred and blackened

ruins of woods; for the most part the trees had fallen, but a certain

proportion still stood, dismal grey stems, with dark brown foliage

instead of green.



On our side the fire had done no more than scorch the nearer trees;

it had failed to secure its footing.  In one place the woodmen had

been at work on Saturday; trees, felled and freshly trimmed, lay in a

clearing, with heaps of sawdust by the sawing-machine and its engine.

Hard by was a temporary hut, deserted.  There was not a breath of wind

this morning, and everything was strangely still.  Even the birds were

hushed, and as we hurried along I and the artilleryman talked in

whispers and looked now and again over our shoulders.  Once or twice

we stopped to listen.



After a time we drew near the road, and as we did so we heard the

clatter of hoofs and saw through the tree stems three cavalry soldiers

riding slowly towards Woking.  We hailed them, and they halted while

we hurried towards them.  It was a lieutenant and a couple of privates

of the 8th Hussars, with a stand like a theodolite, which the

artilleryman told me was a heliograph.

"You are the first men I've seen coming this way this morning,"
said the lieutenant.  "What's brewing?"

His voice and face were eager.  The men behind him stared
curiously.  The artilleryman jumped down the bank into the road and
saluted.

"Gun destroyed last night, sir.  Have been hiding.  Trying to
rejoin battery, sir.  You'll come in sight of the Martians, I expect,
about half a mile along this road."

"What the dickens are they like?" asked the lieutenant.

"Giants in armour, sir.  Hundred feet high.  Three legs and a body
like 'luminium, with a mighty great head in a hood, sir."

"Get out!" said the lieutenant.  "What confounded nonsense!"

"You'll see, sir.  They carry a kind of box, sir, that shoots fire
and strikes you dead."

"What d'ye mean--a gun?"

"No, sir," and the artilleryman began a vivid account of the Heat-Ray.
Halfway through, the lieutenant interrupted him and looked up at
me.  I was still standing on the bank by the side of the road.

"It's perfectly true," I said.

"Well," said the lieutenant, "I suppose it's my business to see it
too.  Look here"--to the artilleryman--"we're detailed here clearing
people out of their houses.  You'd better go along and report yourself
to Brigadier-General Marvin, and tell him all you know.  He's at
Weybridge.  Know the way?"

"I do," I said; and he turned his horse southward again.

"Half a mile, you say?" said he.

"At most," I answered, and pointed over the treetops southward.  He
thanked me and rode on, and we saw them no more.

Farther along we came upon a group of three women and two children
in the road, busy clearing out a labourer's cottage.  They had
got hold of a little hand truck, and were piling it up with
unclean-looking bundles and shabby furniture.  They were all too
assiduously engaged to talk to us as we passed.

By Byfleet station we emerged from the pine trees, and found the
country calm and peaceful under the morning sunlight.  We were far
beyond the range of the Heat-Ray there, and had it not been for the
silent desertion of some of the houses, the stirring movement of
packing in others, and the knot of soldiers standing on the bridge
over the railway and staring down the line towards Woking, the day
would have seemed very like any other Sunday.

Several farm waggons and carts were moving creakily along the road
to Addlestone, and suddenly through the gate of a field we saw, across
a stretch of flat meadow, six twelve-pounders standing neatly at equal
distances pointing towards Woking.  The gunners stood by the guns
waiting, and the ammunition waggons were at a business-like distance.
The men stood almost as if under inspection.

"That's good!" said I.  "They will get one fair shot, at any rate."

The artilleryman hesitated at the gate.

"I shall go on," he said.

Farther on towards Weybridge, just over the bridge, there were a
number of men in white fatigue jackets throwing up a long rampart, and
more guns behind.

"It's bows and arrows against the lightning, anyhow," said the
artilleryman.  "They 'aven't seen that fire-beam yet."

The officers who were not actively engaged stood and stared over
the treetops southwestward, and the men digging would stop every now
and again to stare in the same direction.

Byfleet was in a tumult; people packing, and a score of hussars,
some of them dismounted, some on horseback, were hunting them about.
Three or four black government waggons, with crosses in white circles,
and an old omnibus, among other vehicles, were being loaded in the
village street.  There were scores of people, most of them
sufficiently sabbatical to have assumed their best clothes.  The
soldiers were having the greatest difficulty in making them realise
the gravity of their position.  We saw one shrivelled old fellow with
a huge box and a score or more of flower pots containing orchids,
angrily expostulating with the corporal who would leave them behind.
I stopped and gripped his arm.

"Do you know what's over there?" I said, pointing at the pine tops
that hid the Martians.

"Eh?" said he, turning.  "I was explainin' these is vallyble."

"Death!" I shouted.  "Death is coming!  Death!" and leaving him to
digest that if he could, I hurried on after the artillery-man.  At the
corner I looked back.  The soldier had left him, and he was still
standing by his box, with the pots of orchids on the lid of it, and
staring vaguely over the trees.

No one in Weybridge could tell us where the headquarters were
established; the whole place was in such confusion as I had never seen
in any town before.  Carts, carriages everywhere, the most astonishing
miscellany of conveyances and horseflesh.  The respectable inhabitants
of the place, men in golf and boating costumes, wives prettily
dressed, were packing, river-side loafers energetically helping,
children excited, and, for the most part, highly delighted at this
astonishing variation of their Sunday experiences.  In the midst of it
all the worthy vicar was very pluckily holding an early celebration,
and his bell was jangling out above the excitement.

I and the artilleryman, seated on the step of the drinking
fountain, made a very passable meal upon what we had brought with
us. Patrols of soldiers--here no longer hussars, but grenadiers in
white--were warning people to move now or to take refuge in their
cellars as soon as the firing began.  We saw as we crossed the
railway bridge that a growing crowd of people had assembled in and
about the railway station, and the swarming platform was piled with
boxes and packages. The ordinary traffic had been stopped, I believe,
in order to allow of the passage of troops and guns to Chertsey, and
I have heard since that a savage struggle occurred for places in the
special trains that were put on at a later hour.

We remained at Weybridge until midday, and at that hour we found
ourselves at the place near Shepperton Lock where the Wey and Thames
join.  Part of the time we spent helping two old women to pack a
little cart.  The Wey has a treble mouth, and at this point boats are
to be hired, and there was a ferry across the river.  On the
Shepperton side was an inn with a lawn, and beyond that the tower of
Shepperton Church--it has been replaced by a spire--rose above the
trees.

Here we found an excited and noisy crowd of fugitives.  As yet the
flight had not grown to a panic, but there were already far more
people than all the boats going to and fro could enable to cross.
People came panting along under heavy burdens; one husband and wife
were even carrying a small outhouse door between them, with some of
their household goods piled thereon.  One man told us he meant to try
to get away from Shepperton station.

There was a lot of shouting, and one man was even jesting.  The idea
people seemed to have here was that the Martians were simply
formidable human beings, who might attack and sack the town, to be
certainly destroyed in the end.  Every now and then people would
glance nervously across the Wey, at the meadows towards Chertsey, but
everything over there was still.

Across the Thames, except just where the boats landed, everything
was quiet, in vivid contrast with the Surrey side.  The people who
landed there from the boats went tramping off down the lane.  The big
ferryboat had just made a journey.  Three or four soldiers stood on
the lawn of the inn, staring and jesting at the fugitives, without
offering to help.  The inn was closed, as it was now within prohibited
hours.

"What's that?" cried a boatman, and "Shut up, you fool!" said a man
near me to a yelping dog.  Then the sound came again, this time from
the direction of Chertsey, a muffled thud--the sound of a gun.

The fighting was beginning.  Almost immediately unseen batteries
across the river to our right, unseen because of the trees, took up
the chorus, firing heavily one after the other.  A woman screamed.
Everyone stood arrested by the sudden stir of battle, near us and yet
invisible to us.  Nothing was to be seen save flat meadows, cows
feeding unconcernedly for the most part, and silvery pollard willows
motionless in the warm sunlight.

"The sojers'll stop 'em," said a woman beside me, doubtfully.  A
haziness rose over the treetops.

