“Steady on!” I said, “those candles are wanted,” speaking with a

half-hysterical facetiousness, and scratching away at a match the

while, “for the mantel candlesticks.” My hands trembled so much that

twice I missed the rough paper of the matchbox. As the mantel emerged

from darkness again, two candles in the remoter end of the room were

eclipsed. But with the same match I also relit the larger mirror

candles, and those on the floor near the doorway, so that for the moment

I seemed to gain on the extinctions. But then in a noiseless volley

there vanished four lights at once in different corners of the room, and

I struck another match in quivering haste, and stood hesitating whither

to take it.



As I stood undecided, an invisible hand seemed to sweep out the two

candles on the table. With a cry of terror I dashed at the alcove, then

into the corner and then into the window, relighting three as two more

vanished by the fireplace, and then, perceiving a better way, I dropped

matches on the iron-bound deedbox in the corner, and caught up the

bedroom candlestick. With this I avoided the delay of striking matches,

but for all that the steady process of extinction went on, and the

shadows I feared and fought against returned, and crept in upon me,

first a step gained on this side of me, then on that. I was now almost

frantic with the horror of the coming darkness, and my self-possession

deserted me. I leaped panting from candle to candle in a vain struggle

against that remorseless advance.



I bruised myself in the thigh against the table, I sent a chair

headlong, I stumbled and fell and whisked the cloth from the table in

my fall. My candle rolled away from me and I snatched another as I rose.

Abruptly this was blown out as I swung it off the table by the wind of

my sudden movement, and immediately the two remaining candles followed.

But there was light still in the room, a red light, that streamed across

the ceiling and staved off the shadows from me. The fire! Of course I

could still thrust my candle between the bars and relight it.



I turned to where the flames were still dancing between the glowing

coals and splashing red reflections upon the furniture; made two steps

toward the grate, and incontinently the flames dwindled and vanished,

the glow vanished, the reflections rushed together and disappeared, and

as I thrust the candle between the bars darkness closed upon me like the

shutting of an eye, wrapped about me in a stifling embrace, sealed my

vision, and crushed the last vestiges of self-possession from my brain.

And it was not only palpable darkness, but intolerable terror. The

candle fell from my hands. I flung out my arms in a vain effort to

thrust that ponderous blackness away from me, and lifting up my voice,

screamed with all my might, once, twice, thrice. Then I think I must

have staggered to my feet. I know I thought suddenly of the moonlit

corridor, and with my head bowed and my arms over my face, made a

stumbling run for the door.



But I had forgotten the exact position of the door, and I struck myself

heavily against the corner of the bed. I staggered back, turned, and was

either struck or struck myself against some other bulky furnishing. I

have a vague memory of battering myself thus to and fro in the darkness,

of a heavy blow at last upon my forehead, of a horrible sensation

of falling that lasted an age, of my last frantic effort to keep my

footing, and then I remember no more.



I opened my eyes in daylight. My head was roughly bandaged, and the man

with the withered hand was watching my face. I looked about me trying

to remember what had happened, and for a space I could not recollect.

I rolled my eyes into the corner and saw the old woman, no longer

abstracted, no longer terrible, pouring out some drops of medicine

from a little blue phial into a glass. “Where am I?” I said. “I seem to

remember you, and yet I can not remember who you are.”



They told me then, and I heard of the haunted Red Room as one who hears

a tale. “We found you at dawn,” said he, “and there was blood on your

forehead and lips.”



I wondered that I had ever disliked him. The three of them in the

daylight seemed commonplace old folk enough. The man with the green

shade had his head bent as one who sleeps.



It was very slowly I recovered the memory of my experience. “You

believe now,” said the old man with the withered hand, “that the room is

haunted?” He spoke no longer as one who greets an intruder, but as one

who condoles with a friend.



“Yes,” said I, “the room is haunted.”



“And you have seen it. And we who have been here all our lives have

never set eyes upon it. Because we have never dared. Tell us, is it

truly the old earl who--”



“No,” said I, “it is not.”



“I told you so,” said the old lady, with the glass in her hand. “It is

his poor young countess who was frightened--”



“It is not,” I said. “There is neither ghost of earl nor ghost of

countess in that room; there is no ghost there at all, but worse, far

worse, something impalpable--”



“Well?” they said.



“The worst of all the things that haunt poor mortal men,” said I; “and

that is, in all its nakedness--‘Fear!’ Fear that will not have light

nor sound, that will not bear with reason, that deafens and darkens and

overwhelms. It followed me through the corridor, it fought against me in

the room--”



I stopped abruptly. There was an interval of silence. My hand went up to

my bandages. “The candles went out one after another, and I fled--”



Then the man with the shade lifted his face sideways to see me and

spoke.



“That is it,” said he. “I knew that was it. A Power of Darkness. To put

such a curse upon a home! It lurks there always. You can feel it even

in the daytime, even of a bright summer’s day, in the hangings, in the

curtains, keeping behind you however you face about. In the dusk it

creeps in the corridor and follows you, so that you dare not turn. It is

even as you say. Fear itself is in that room. Black Fear.... And there

it will be... so long as this house of sin endures.”








