The man with the flaxen beard re-entered from the archway, and as he did

so the cage of a lift came sliding down in front of the thickset

man, and a lean, grey-bearded man, carrying a roll, and wearing a

tightly-fitting costume of dark green, appeared therein.



“This is the tailor,” said the thickset man with an introductory

gesture. “It will never do for you to wear that black. I cannot

understand how it got here. But I shall. I shall. You will be as rapid

as possible?” he said to the tailor.



The man in green bowed, and, advancing, seated himself by Graham on the

bed. His manner was calm, but his eyes were full of curiosity. “You will

find the fashions altered, Sire,” he said. He glanced from under his

brows at the thickset man.



He opened the roller with a quick movement, and a confusion of brilliant

fabrics poured out over his knees. “You lived, Sire, in a period

essentially cylindrical--the Victorian. With a tendency to the

hemisphere in hats. Circular curves always. Now--” He flicked out a

little appliance the size and appearance of a keyless watch, whirled the

knob, and behold--a little figure in white appeared kinetoscope fashion

on the dial, walking and turning. The tailor caught up a pattern of

bluish white satin. “That is my conception of your immediate treatment,”

 he said.



The thickset man came and stood by the shoulder of Graham.



“We have very little time,” he said.



“Trust me,” said the tailor. “My machine follows. What do you think of

this?”



“What is that?” asked the man from the nineteenth century.



“In your days they showed you a fashion-plate,” said the tailor, “but

this is our modern development See here.” The little figure repeated

its evolutions, but in a different costume. “Or this,” and with a click

another small figure in a more voluminous type of robe marched on to

the dial. The tailor was very quick in his movements, and glanced twice

towards the lift as he did these things.



It rumbled again, and a crop-haired anaemic lad with features of the

Chinese type, clad in coarse pale blue canvas, appeared together with a

complicated machine, which he pushed noiselessly on little castors into

the room. Incontinently the little kinetoscope was dropped, Graham was

invited to stand in front of the machine and the tailor muttered some

instructions to the crop-haired lad, who answered in guttural tones and

with words Graham did not recognise. The boy then went to conduct an

incomprehensible monologue in the corner, and the tailor pulled out a

number of slotted arms terminating in little discs, pulling them out

until the discs were flat against the body of Graham, one at each

shoulder blade, one at the elbows, one at the neck and so forth, so that

at last there were, perhaps, two score of them upon his body and limbs.

At the same time, some other person entered the room by the lift,

behind Graham. The tailor set moving a mechanism that initiated a

faint-sounding rhythmic movement of parts in the machine, and in another

moment he was knocking up the levers and Graham was released. The tailor

replaced his cloak of black, and the man with the flaxen beard proffered

him a little glass of some refreshing fluid. Graham saw over the rim of

the glass a pale-faced young man regarding him with a singular fixity.





The thickset man had been pacing the room fretfully, and now turned and

went through the archway towards the balcony, from which the noise of

a distant crowd still came in gusts and cadences. The cropheaded lad

handed the tailor a roll of the bluish satin and the two began fixing

this in the mechanism in a manner reminiscent of a roll of paper in a

nineteenth century printing machine. Then they ran the entire thing on

its easy, noiseless bearings across the room to a remote corner where

a twisted cable looped rather gracefully from the wall. They made some

connexion and the machine became energetic and swift.



“What is that doing?” asked Graham, pointing with the empty glass to

the busy figures and trying to ignore the scrutiny of the new comer. “Is

that--some sort of force--laid on?”



“Yes,” said the man with the flaxen beard.



“Who is that?” He indicated the archway behind him.



The man in purple stroked his little beard, hesitated, and answered in

an undertone, “He is Howard, your chief guardian. You see, Sire,--it’s

a little difficult to explain. The Council appoints a guardian and

assistants. This hall has under certain restrictions been public. In

order that people might satisfy themselves. We have barred the doorways

for the first time. But I think--if you don’t mind, I will leave him to

explain.”



“Odd” said Graham. “Guardian? Council?” Then turning his back on the new

comer, he asked in an undertone, “Why is this man glaring at me? Is he a

mesmerist?”



“Mesmerist! He is a capillotomist.”



“Capillotomist!”



“Yes--one of the chief. His yearly fee is sixdoz lions.”



It sounded sheer nonsense. Graham snatched at the last phrase with an

unsteady mind. “Sixdoz lions?” he said.



“Didn’t you have lions? I suppose not. You had the old pounds? They are

our monetary units.”



“But what was that you said--sixdoz?”



“Yes. Six dozen, Sire. Of course things, even these little things,

have altered. You lived in the days of the decimal system, the Arab

system--tens, and little hundreds and thousands. We have eleven numerals

now. We have single figures for both ten and eleven, two figures for

a dozen, and a dozen dozen makes a gross, a great hundred, you know, a

dozen gross a dozand, and a dozand dozand a myriad. Very simple?”



“I suppose so,” said Graham. “But about this cap--what was it?”



The man with the flaxen beard glanced over his shoulder.



“Here are your clothes!” he said. Graham turned round sharply and saw

the tailor standing at his elbow smiling, and holding some palpably new

garments over his arm. The crop-headed boy, by means of one finger,

was impelling the complicated machine towards the lift by which he had

arrived. Graham stared at the completed suit. “You don’t mean to say--!”



“Just made,” said the tailor. He dropped the garments at the feet of

Graham, walked to the bed on which Graham had so recently been lying,

flung out the translucent mattress, and turned up the looking glass. As

he did so a furious bell summoned the thickset man to the corner. The

man with the flaxen beard rushed across to him and then hurried out by

the archway.



The tailor was assisting Graham into a dark purple combination garment,

stockings, vest, and pants in one, as the thickset man came back from

the corner to meet the man with the flaxen beard returning from the

balcony. They began speaking quickly in an undertone, their bearing had

an unmistakable quality of anxiety. Over the purple under-garment came a

complex but graceful garment of bluish white, and I Graham was clothed

in the fashion once more and saw himself, sallow-faced, unshaven and

shaggy still, but at least naked no longer, and in some indefinable

unprecedented way graceful.



“I must shave,” he said regarding himself in the glass.



“In a moment,” said Howard.



The persistent stare ceased. The young man closed his eyes, reopened

them, and with a lean hand extended, advanced on Graham. Then he

stopped, with his hand slowly gesticulating, and looked about him.



“A seat,” said Howard impatiently, and in a moment the flaxen-bearded

man had a chair behind Graham. “Sit down, please,” said Howard.



Graham hesitated, and in the other hand of the wildeyed man he saw the

glint of steel.



“Don’t you understand, Sire?” cried the flaxen-bearded man with hurried

politeness. “He is going to cut your hair.”



“Oh!” cried Graham enlightened. “But you called him--



“A capillotomist--precisely! He is one of the finest artists in the

world.”



Graham sat down abruptly. The flaxen-bearded man disappeared. The

capillotomist came forward with graceful gestures, examined Graham’s

ears and surveyed him, felt the back of his head, and would have sat

down again to regard him but for Howard’s audible impatience. Forthwith

with rapid movements and a succession of deftly handled implements he

shaved Graham’s chin, clipped his moustache, and cut and arranged his

hair. All this he did without a word, with something of the rapt air of

a poet inspired. And as soon as he had finished Graham was handed a pair

of shoes.


