“The greatest Boss the world has ever seen,” said the voice.



Graham ransacked his mind. “The Council has few friends among the

people,” he hazarded.



“Few friends. And poor ones at that. They’ve had their time. Eh! They

should have kept to the clever ones. But twice they held election. And

Ostrog. And now it has burst out and nothing can stay it, nothing can

stay it. Twice they rejected Ostrog--Ostrog the Boss. I heard of his

rages at the time--he was terrible. Heaven save them! For nothing on

earth can now, he has raised the Labour Companies upon them. No one else

would have dared. All the blue canvas armed and marching! He will go

through with it. He will go through.”



He was silent for a little while. “This Sleeper,” he said, and stopped.



“Yes,” said Graham. “Well?”



The senile voice sank to a confidential whisper, the dim, pale face came

close. “The real Sleeper--”



“Yes,” said Graham.



“Died years ago.”



“What?” said Graham, sharply.



“Years ago. Died. Years ago.”



“You don’t say so!” said Graham.



“I do. I do say so. He died. This Sleeper who’s woke up--they changed in

the night. A poor, drugged insensible creature. But I mustn’t tell all I

know. I mustn’t tell all I know.”



For a little while he muttered inaudibly. His secret was too much for

him. “I don’t know the ones that put him to sleep--that was before my

time--but I know the man who injected the stimulants and woke him again.

It was ten to one--wake or kill. Wake or kill. Ostrog’s way.”



Graham was so astonished at these things that he had to interrupt, to

make the old man repeat his words, to re-question vaguely, before he was

sure of the meaning and folly of what he heard. And his awakening had

not been natural! Was that an old man’s senile superstition, too, or

had it any truth in it? Feeling in the dark corners of his memory, he

presently came on something that might conceivably be an impression of

some such stimulating effect. It dawned upon him that he had happened

upon a lucky encounter, that at last he might learn something of the

new age. The old man wheezed a while and spat, and then the piping,

reminiscent voice resumed:



“The first time they rejected him. I’ve followed it all.”



“Rejected whom?” said Graham. “The Sleeper?”



“Sleeper? No. Ostrog. He was terrible--terrible! And he was promised

then, promised certainly the next time. Fools they were--not to be more

afraid of him. Now all the city’s his millstone, and such as we dust

ground upon it. Dust ground upon it. Until he set to work--the workers

cut each other’s throats, and murdered a Chinaman or a Labour policeman

at times, and left the rest of us in peace. Dead bodies! Robbing!

Darkness! Such a thing hasn’t been this gross of years. Eh!--but ‘tis

ill on small folks when the great fall out! It’s ill.”



“Did you say--there had not been what?--for a gross of years?”



“Eh?” said the old man.



The old man said something about clipping his words, and made him repeat

this a third time. “Fighting and slaying, and weapons in hand, and fools

bawling freedom and the like,” said the old man. “Not in all my life has

there been that. These are like the old days--for sure--when the Paris

people broke out--three gross of years ago. That’s what I mean hasn’t

been. But it’s the world’s way. It had to come back. I know. I know.

This five years Ostrog has been working, and there has been trouble and

trouble, and hunger and threats and high talk and arms. Blue canvas and

murmurs. No one safe. Everything sliding and slipping. And now here we

are! Revolt and fighting, and the Council come to its end.”



“You are rather well-informed on these things,” said Graham.



“I know what I hear. It isn’t all Babble Machine with me.”



“No,” said Graham, wondering what Babble Machine might be. “And you are

certain this Ostrog--you are certain Ostrog organised this rebellion and

arranged for the waking of the Sleeper? Just to assert himself--because

he was not elected to the Council?



“Everyone knows that, I should think,” said the old man. “Except--just

fools. He meant to be master somehow. In the Council or not. Everyone

who knows anything knows that. And here we are with dead bodies lying

in the dark! Why, where have you been if you haven’t heard all about

the trouble between Ostrog and the Verneys? And what do you think the

troubles are about? The Sleeper? Eh? You think the Sleeper’s real and

woke of his own accord--eh?”



“I’m a dull man, older than I look, and forgetful,” said Graham. “Lots

of things that have happened--especially of late years--. If I was the

Sleeper, to tell you the truth, I couldn’t know less about them.”



“Eh!” said the voice. “Old, are you? You don’t sound so very old! But

its not everyone keeps his memory to my time of life--truly. But these

notorious things! But you’re not so old as me--not nearly so old as me.

Well! I ought not to judge other men by myself, perhaps. I’m young--for

so old a man. Maybe you’re old for so young.”



“That’s it,” said Graham. “And I’ve a queer history. I know very little.

And history! Practically I know no history. The Sleeper and Julius

Caesar are all the same to me. It’s interesting to hear you talk of

these things.”



“I know a few things,” said the old man. “I know a thing or two. But--.

Hark!”



The two men became silent, listening. There was heavy thud, a concussion

that made their seat shiver. The passers-by stopped, shouted to one

another. The old man was full of questions; he shouted to a man who

passed near. Graham, emboldened by his example, got up and accosted

others. None knew what had happened.



He returned to the seat and found the old man muttering vague

interrogations in an undertone. For a while they said nothing to one

another.



The sense of this gigantic struggle, so near and yet so remote oppressed

Graham’s imagination. Was this old man right, was the report of the

people right, and were the revolutionaries winning? Or were they all in

error, and were the red guards driving all before them? At any time the

flood of warfare might pour into this silent quarter of the city and

seize upon him again. It behooved him to learn all he could while there

was time. He turned suddenly to the old man with a question and left it

unsaid. But his motion moved the old man to speech again.



“Eh! but how things work together!” said the old man. “This Sleeper that

all the fools put their trust in! I’ve the whole history of it--I was

always a good one for histories. When I was a boy--I’m that old--I

used to read printed books. You’d hardly think it. Likely you’ve seen

none--they rot and dust so--and the Sanitary Company burns them to make

ashlarite. But they were convenient in their dirty way. Oh I learnt a

lot. These new-fangled Babble Machines--they don’t seem new-fangled to

you, eh?--they’re easy to hear, easy to forget. But I’ve traced all the

Sleeper business from the first.”





“You will scarcely believe it,” said Graham slowly, “I’m so

ignorant--I’ve been so preoccupied in my own little affairs, my

circumstances have been so odd--I know nothing of this Sleeper’s

history. Who was he?”



“Eh!” said the old man. “I know. I know. He was a poor nobody, and set

on a playful woman, poor soul! And he fell into a trance. There’s the

old things they had, those brown things--silver photographs--still

showing him as he lay, a gross and a half years ago--a gross and a half

of years.”



“Set on a playful woman, poor soul,” said Graham softly to himself, and

then aloud, “Yes--well! go on.”



“You must know he had a cousin named Warming a solitary man without

children, who made a big fortune speculating in roads--the first

Eadhamite roads. But surely you’ve heard? No? Why? He bought all the

patent rights and made a big company. In those days there were grosses

of grosses of separate businesses and business companies. Grosses of

grosses! His roads killed the railroads--the old things--in two dozen

years; he bought up and Eadhamited the tracks. And because he didn’t

want to break up his great property or let in shareholders, he left it

all to the Sleeper, and put it under a Board of Trustees that he had

picked and trained. He knew then the Sleeper wouldn’t wake, that he

would go on sleeping, sleeping till he died. He knew that quite well!

And plump! a man in the United States, who had lost two sons in a boat

accident, followed that up with another great bequest. His trustees

found themselves with a dozen myriads of lions’-worth or more of

property at the very beginning.”



“What was his name?”



“Graham.”



“No, I mean--that American’s.”



“Isbister.”



“Isbister!” cried Graham. “Why, I don’t even know the name.”



“Of course not,” said the old man. “Of course not. People don’t learn

much in the schools nowadays. But I know all about him. He was a rich

American who went from England, and he left the Sleeper even more than

Warming. How he made it? That I don’t know. Something about pictures by

machinery. But he made it and left it, and so the Council had its start.

It was just a council of trustees at first.”



“And how did it grow?”



“Eh!--but you’re not up to things. Money attracts money--and twelve

brains are better than one. They played it cleverly. They worked

politics with money, and kept on adding to the money by working currency

and tariffs. They grew--they grew. And for years the twelve trustees

hid the growing of the Sleeper’s estate, under double names and company

titles and all that. The Council spread by title deed, mortgage, share,

every political party, every newspaper, they bought. If you listen to

the old stories you will see the Council growing and growing. Billions

and billions of lions at last--the Sleeper’s estate. And all growing

out of a whim--out of this Warming’s will, and an accident to Isbister’s

sons.



“Men are strange,” said the old man. “The strange, thing to me is how

the Council worked together so long. As many as twelve. But they worked

in cliques from the first. And they’ve slipped back. In my young days

speaking of the Council was like an ignorant man speaking of God. We

didn’t think they could do wrong. We didn’t know of their women and all

that! Or else I’ve got wiser.



“Men are strange,” said the old man. “Here are you, young and

ignorant, and me--sevendy years old, and I might reasonably be

forgetting--explaining it all to you short and clear.



“Sevendy,” he said, “sevendy, and I hear and see--hear better than I

see. And reason clearly, and keep myself up to all the happenings of

things. Sevendy!



“Life is strange. I was twaindy before Ostrog was a baby. I remember him

long before he’d pushed his way to the head of the Wind Vanes Control.

I’ve seen many changes. Eh! I’ve worn the blue. And at last I’ve come to

see this crush and darkness and tumult and dead men carried by in heaps

on the ways. And all his doing! All his doing!”



His voice died away in scarcely articulate praises of Ostrog.



Graham thought. “Let me see,” he said, “if I have it right.”



He extended a hand and ticked off points upon his fingers. “The Sleeper

has been asleep--”



“Changed,” said the old man.



“Perhaps. And meanwhile the Sleeper’s property grew in the hands of

Twelve Trustees, until it swallowed up nearly all the great ownership of

the world. The Twelve Trustees--by virtue of this property have become

virtually masters of the world. Because they are the paying power--just

as the old English Parliament used to be--”



“Eh!” said the old man. “That’s so--that’s a good comparison. You’re not

so--”



“And now this Ostrog--has suddenly revolutionised the world by waking

the Sleeper--whom no one but the superstitious, common people had ever

dreamt would wake again--raising the Sleeper to claim his property from

the Council, after all these years.”



The old man endorsed this statement with a cough. “It’s strange,”

 he said, “to meet a man who learns these things for the first time

tonight.”



“Aye,” said Graham, “it’s strange.”



“Have you been in a Pleasure City?” said the old man. “All my life I’ve

longed--” He laughed. “Even now,” he said, “I could enjoy a little

fun. Enjoy seeing things, anyhow.” He mumbled a sentence Graham did not

understand.



“The Sleeper--when did he awake?” said Graham suddenly.



“Three days ago.”



“Where is he?”


