“We win. Indeed we win. Tonight, in five swift hours. Suddenly we struck

everywhere. The windvane people, the Labour Company and its millions,

burst the bonds. We got the pull of the aeropiles.”



He paused. “Yes,” said Graham, guessing that aeropile meant flying

machine.



“That was, of course, essential. Or they could have got away. All the

city rose, every third man almost was in it! All the blue, all the

public services, save only just a few aeronauts and about half the red

police. You were rescued, and their own police of the Ways--not half of

them could be massed at the Council House--have been broken up, disarmed

or killed. All London is ours--now. Only the Council House remains.



“Half of those who remain to them of the red police were lost in that

foolish attempt to recapture you. They lost their heads when they lost

you. They flung all they had at the theatre. We cut them off from

the Council House there. Truly tonight has been a night of victory.

Everywhere your star has blazed. A day ago--the White Council ruled as

it has ruled for a gross of years, for a century and a half of years,

and then, with only a little whispering, a covert arming here and there,

suddenly--So!”



“I am very ignorant,” said Graham. “I suppose--. I do not clearly

understand the conditions of this fighting. If you could explain. Where

is the Council? Where is the fight?”



Ostrog stepped across the room, something clicked, and suddenly,

save for an oval glow, they were in darkness. For a moment Graham was

puzzled.



Then he saw that the cloudy grey disc had taken depth and colour, had

assumed the appearance of an oval window looking out upon a strange

unfamiliar scene.



At the first glance he was unable to guess what this scene might be.

It was a daylight scene, the daylight of a wintry day, grey and clear.

Across the picture and halfway as it seemed between him and the remoter

view, a stout cable of twisted white wire stretched vertically. Then he

perceived that the rows of great windwheels he saw, the wide intervals,

the occasional gulfs of darkness, were akin to those through which he

had fled from the Council House. He distinguished an orderly file of red

figures marching across an open space between files of men in black,

and realised before Ostrog spoke that he was looking down on the upper

surface of latter-day London. The overnight snows had gone. He judged

that this mirror was some modern replacement of the camera obscura, but

that matter was not explained to him. He saw that though the file of red

figures was trotting from left to right, yet they were passing out of

the picture to the left. He wondered momentarily, and then saw that the

picture was passing slowly, panorama fashion, across the oval.



“In a moment you will see the fighting,” said Ostrog at his elbow.

“Those fellows in red you notice are prisoners. This is the roof space

of London--all the houses are practically continuous now. The streets

and public squares are covered in. The gaps and chasms of your time have

disappeared.”



Something out of focus obliterated half the picture. Its form suggested

a man. There was a gleam of metal, a flash, something that swept across

the oval, as the eyelid of a bird sweeps across its eye, and the picture

was clear again. And now Graham beheld men running down among the

wind-wheels, pointing weapons from which jetted out little

smoky flashes. They swarmed thicker and thicker to the right,

gesticulating--it might be they were shouting, but of that the picture

told nothing. They and the windwheels passed slowly and steadily across

the field of the mirror.



“Now,” said Ostrog, “comes the Council House,” and slowly a black edge

crept into view and gathered Graham’s attention. Soon it was no longer

an edge but a cavity, a huge blackened space amidst the clustering

edifices, and from it thin spires of smoke rose into the pallid winter

sky. Gaunt ruinous masses of the building, mighty truncated piers and

girders, rose dismally out of this cavernous darkness. And over these

vestiges of some splendid place, countless minute men were clambering,

leaping, swarming.



“This is the Council House,” said Ostrog. “Their last stronghold. And

the fools wasted enough ammunition to hold out for a month in blowing up

the buildings all about them--to stop our attack. You heard the smash?

It shattered half the brittle glass in the city.”



And while he spoke, Graham saw that beyond this sea of ruins,

overhanging it and rising to a great height, was a ragged mass of white

building. This mass had been isolated by the ruthless destruction of

its surroundings. Black gaps marked the passages the disaster had torn

apart; big halls had been slashed open and the decoration of their

interiors showed dismally in the wintry dawn, and down the jagged wall

hung festoons of divided cables and twisted ends of lines and metallic

rods. And amidst all the vast details moved little red specks, the

red-clothed defenders of the Council. Every now and then faint flashes

illuminated the bleak shadows. At the first sight it seemed to Graham

that an attack upon this isolated white building was in progress, but

then he perceived that the party of the revolt was not advancing, but

sheltered amidst the colossal wreckage that encircled this last ragged

stronghold of the red-garbed men, was keeping up a fitful firing.



And not ten hours ago he had stood beneath the ventilating fans in a

little chamber within that remote building wondering what was happening

in the world!



Looking more attentively as this warlike episode moved silently across

the centre of the mirror, Graham saw that the white building was

surrounded on every side by ruins, and Ostrog proceeded to describe

in concise phrases how its defenders had sought by such destruction to

isolate themselves from a storm. He spoke of the loss of men that huge

downfall had entailed in an indifferent tone. He indicated an improvised

mortuary among the wreckage showed ambulances swarming like cheese-mites

along a ruinous groove that had once been a street of moving ways. He

was more interested in pointing out the parts of the Council House, the

distribution of the besiegers. In a little while the civil contest

that had convulsed London was no longer a mystery to Graham. It was

no tumultuous revolt had occurred that night, no equal warfare, but

a splendidly organised _coup d’etat_. Ostrog’s grasp of details was

astonishing; he seemed to know the business of even the smallest knot of

black and red specks that crawled amidst these places.



He stretched a huge black arm across the luminous picture, and showed

the room whence Graham had escaped, and across the chasm of ruins the

course of his flight. Graham recognised the gulf across which the gutter

ran, and the wind-wheels where he had crouched from the flying machine.

The rest of his path had succumbed to the explosion. He looked again at

the Council House, and it was already half hidden, and on the right a

hillside with a cluster of domes and pinnacles, hazy, dim and distant,

was gliding into view.



“And the Council is really overthrown?” he said.



“Overthrown,” said Ostrog.



“And I--. Is it indeed true that I?”



“You are Master of the World.”



“But that white flag--”



“That is the flag of the Council--the flag of the Rule of the World. It

will fall. The fight is over. Their attack on the theatre was their last

frantic struggle. They have only a thousand men or so, and some of these

men will be disloyal. They have little ammunition. And we are reviving

the ancient arts. We are casting guns.”



“But--help. Is this city the world?”



“Practically this is all they have left to them of their empire.

Abroad the cities have either revolted with us or wait the issue. Your

awakening has perplexed them, paralysed them.”


