"What news from the common?" I said.



"'Ain't yer just _been_ there?" asked the men.



"People seem fair silly about the common," said the woman over the

gate.  "What's it all abart?"



"Haven't you heard of the men from Mars?" said I; "the creatures

from Mars?"



"Quite enough," said the woman over the gate.  "Thenks"; and all

three of them laughed.



I felt foolish and angry.  I tried and found I could not tell them

what I had seen.  They laughed again at my broken sentences.



"You'll hear more yet," I said, and went on to my home.



I startled my wife at the doorway, so haggard was I.  I went into

the dining room, sat down, drank some wine, and so soon as I could

collect myself sufficiently I told her the things I had seen.  The

dinner, which was a cold one, had already been served, and remained

neglected on the table while I told my story.



"There is one thing," I said, to allay the fears I had aroused;

"they are the most sluggish things I ever saw crawl.  They may keep

the pit and kill people who come near them, but they cannot get out

of it. . . .  But the horror of them!"



"Don't, dear!" said my wife, knitting her brows and putting her

hand on mine.



"Poor Ogilvy!" I said.  "To think he may be lying dead there!"



My wife at least did not find my experience incredible.  When I saw

how deadly white her face was, I ceased abruptly.



"They may come here," she said again and again.



I pressed her to take wine, and tried to reassure her.



"They can scarcely move," I said.



I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvy had

told me of the impossibility of the Martians establishing themselves

on the earth.  In particular I laid stress on the gravitational

difficulty.  On the surface of the earth the force of gravity is three

times what it is on the surface of Mars.  A Martian, therefore, would

weigh three times more than on Mars, albeit his muscular strength

would be the same.  His own body would be a cope of lead to him.  That,

indeed, was the general opinion.  Both _The Times_ and the _Daily

Telegraph_, for instance, insisted on it the next morning, and both

overlooked, just as I did, two obvious modifying influences.



The atmosphere of the earth, we now know, contains far more oxygen

or far less argon (whichever way one likes to put it) than does Mars.

The invigorating influences of this excess of oxygen upon the Martians

indisputably did much to counterbalance the increased weight of their

bodies.  And, in the second place, we all overlooked the fact that

such mechanical intelligence as the Martian possessed was quite able

to dispense with muscular exertion at a pinch.



But I did not consider these points at the time, and so my

reasoning was dead against the chances of the invaders.  With wine and

food, the confidence of my own table, and the necessity of reassuring

my wife, I grew by insensible degrees courageous and secure.



"They have done a foolish thing," said I, fingering my wineglass.

"They are dangerous because, no doubt, they are mad with terror.

Perhaps they expected to find no living things--certainly no

intelligent living things."



"A shell in the pit" said I, "if the worst comes to the worst will

kill them all."



The intense excitement of the events had no doubt left my

perceptive powers in a state of erethism.  I remember that dinner

table with extraordinary vividness even now.  My dear wife's sweet

anxious face peering at me from under the pink lamp shade, the white

cloth with its silver and glass table furniture--for in those days

even philosophical writers had many little luxuries--the crimson-purple

wine in my glass, are photographically distinct.  At the end of

it I sat, tempering nuts with a cigarette, regretting Ogilvy's

rashness, and denouncing the shortsighted timidity of the Martians.



So some respectable dodo in the Mauritius might have lorded it in

his nest, and discussed the arrival of that shipful of pitiless

sailors in want of animal food.  "We will peck them to death tomorrow,

my dear."



I did not know it, but that was the last civilised dinner I was to

eat for very many strange and terrible days.



The most extraordinary thing to my mind, of all the strange and

wonderful things that happened upon that Friday, was the dovetailing

of the commonplace habits of our social order with the first

beginnings of the series of events that was to topple that social

order headlong.  If on Friday night you had taken a pair of compasses

and drawn a circle with a radius of five miles round the Woking sand

pits, I doubt if you would have had one human being outside it, unless

it were some relation of Stent or of the three or four cyclists or

London people lying dead on the common, whose emotions or habits were

at all affected by the new-comers.  Many people had heard of the

cylinder, of course, and talked about it in their leisure, but it

certainly did not make the sensation that an ultimatum to Germany

would have done.



In London that night poor Henderson's telegram describing the

gradual unscrewing of the shot was judged to be a canard, and his

evening paper, after wiring for authentication from him and receiving

no reply--the man was killed--decided not to print a special edition.



Even within the five-mile circle the great majority of people were

inert.  I have already described the behaviour of the men and women to

whom I spoke.  All over the district people were dining and supping;

working men were gardening after the labours of the day, children

were being put to bed, young people were wandering through the lanes

love-making, students sat over their books.



Maybe there was a murmur in the village streets, a novel and

dominant topic in the public-houses, and here and there a messenger,

or even an eye-witness of the later occurrences, caused a whirl of

excitement, a shouting, and a running to and fro; but for the most

part the daily routine of working, eating, drinking, sleeping, went on

as it had done for countless years--as though no planet Mars existed

in the sky.  Even at Woking station and Horsell and Chobham that was

the case.



In Woking junction, until a late hour, trains were stopping and

going on, others were shunting on the sidings, passengers were

alighting and waiting, and everything was proceeding in the most

ordinary way.  A boy from the town, trenching on Smith's monopoly, was

selling papers with the afternoon's news.  The ringing impact of

trucks, the sharp whistle of the engines from the junction, mingled

with their shouts of "Men from Mars!"  Excited men came into the

station about nine o'clock with incredible tidings, and caused no more

disturbance than drunkards might have done.  People rattling

Londonwards peered into the darkness outside the carriage windows, and

saw only a rare, flickering, vanishing spark dance up from the

direction of Horsell, a red glow and a thin veil of smoke driving

across the stars, and thought that nothing more serious than a heath

fire was happening.  It was only round the edge of the common that any

disturbance was perceptible.  There were half a dozen villas burning

on the Woking border.  There were lights in all the houses on the

common side of the three villages, and the people there kept awake

till dawn.



A curious crowd lingered restlessly, people coming and going but

the crowd remaining, both on the Chobham and Horsell bridges.  One or

two adventurous souls, it was afterwards found, went into the darkness

and crawled quite near the Martians; but they never returned, for now

and again a light-ray, like the beam of a warship's searchlight swept

the common, and the Heat-Ray was ready to follow.  Save for such, that

big area of common was silent and desolate, and the charred bodies lay

about on it all night under the stars, and all the next day.  A noise

of hammering from the pit was heard by many people.



So you have the state of things on Friday night.  In the centre,

sticking into the skin of our old planet Earth like a poisoned dart,

was this cylinder.  But the poison was scarcely working yet.  Around

it was a patch of silent common, smouldering in places, and with a few

dark, dimly seen objects lying in contorted attitudes here and there.

Here and there was a burning bush or tree.  Beyond was a fringe of

excitement, and farther than that fringe the inflammation had not

crept as yet.  In the rest of the world the stream of life still

flowed as it had flowed for immemorial years.  The fever of war that

would presently clog vein and artery, deaden nerve and destroy brain,

had still to develop.



All night long the Martians were hammering and stirring, sleepless,

indefatigable, at work upon the machines they were making ready, and

ever and again a puff of greenish-white smoke whirled up to the

starlit sky.


