For weeks he would not go there,

would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart,

his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence.

Then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to

dreadful places near Blue Gate Fields, and stay there, day after day,

until he was driven away. On his return he would sit in front of the

picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times,

with that pride of individualism that is half the fascination of sin,

and smiling with secret pleasure, at the misshapen shadow that had to

bear the burden that should have been his own.



After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and

gave up the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord Henry, as

well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where they had more

than once spent the winter. He hated to be separated from the picture

that was such a part of his life, and was also afraid that during his

absence someone might gain access to the room, in spite of the elaborate

bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door.



He was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. It was true

that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness

of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn

from that? He would laugh at anyone who tried to taunt him. He had not

painted it. What was it to At another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long

latticed room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of

olive-green lacquer, he used to give curious concerts, in which mad

gypsies tore wild music from little zithers, or grave yellow-shawled

Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutes, while

grinning negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums, and, crouching

upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned Indians blew through long pipes of reed

or brass, and charmed, or feigned to charm, great hooded snakes and

horrible horned adders. The harsh intervals and shrill discords of

barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert's grace, and Chopin's

beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell

unheeded on his ear. He collected together from all parts of the world

the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of

dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact

with Western civilisations, and loved to touch and try them. He had the

mysterious _juruparis_ of the Rio Negro Indians, that women are not

allowed to look at, and that even youths may not see till they have been

subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the

Peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human bones

such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chili, and the sonorous green jaspers

that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note of singular sweetness.

He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when they were

shaken; the long _clarin_ of the Mexicans, into which the performer does

not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh _ture_ of the

Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all day long in

high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three

leagues; the _teponaztli_, that has two vibrating tongues of wood, and

is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from

the milky juice of plants; the _yotl_-bells of the Aztecs, that are hung

in clusters like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the

skins of great serpents, like the one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went

with Cortes into the Mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has

left us so vivid a description. The fantastic character of these

instruments fascinated him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought

that Art, like Nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and

with hideous voices. Yet, after some time, he wearied of them, and would

sit in his box at the Opera, either alone or with Lord Henry, listening

in rapt pleasure to "Tannhäuser," and seeing in the prelude to that

great work of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul.



On one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a

costume ball as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered

with five hundred and sixty pearls. This taste enthralled him for years,

and, indeed, may be said never to have left him. He would often spend a

whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various stones that

he had collected, such as the olive-green chrysoberyl that turns red by

lamp-light, the cymophane with its wire-like line of silver, the

pistachio-coloured peridot, rose-pink and wine-yellow topazes,

carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous four-rayed stars, flame-red

cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with their

alternate layers of ruby and sapphire. He loved the red gold of the

sunstone, and the moonstone's pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow

of the milky opal. He procured from Amsterdam three emeralds of

extraordinary size and richness of colour, and had a turquoise _de la

vieille roche_ that was the envy of all the connoisseurs.



He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. In Alphonso's

"Clericalis Disciplina" a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real

jacinth, and in the romantic history of Alexander, the Conqueror of

Emathia was said to have found in the vale of Jordan snakes "with

collars of real emeralds growing on their backs." There was a gem in the

brain of the dragon, Philostratus told us, and "by the exhibition of

golden letters and a scarlet robe" the monster could be thrown into a

magical sleep, and slain. According to the great alchemist, Pierre de

Boniface, the diamond rendered a man invisible, and the agate of India

made him eloquent. The cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth

provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes of wine. The

garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her

colour. The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus,

that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids.

Leonardus Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a

newly-killed toad, that was a certain antidote against poison. The

bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm

that could cure the plague. In the nests of Arabian birds was the

aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from any

danger by fire.



The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand,

at the ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the palace of John the

Priest were "made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake

inwrought, so that no man might bring poison within." Over the gable

were "two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles," so that the gold

might shine by day, and the carbuncles by night. In Lodge's strange

romance "A Margarite of America" it was stated that in the chamber of

the queen one could behold "all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased

out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles,

sapphires, and greene emeraults." Marco Polo had seen the inhabitants of

Zipangu place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the dead. A

sea-monster had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver brought to

King Perozes, and had slain the thief, and mourned for seven moons over

its loss. When the Huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it

away--Procopius tells the story--nor was it ever found again, though the

Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it.

The King of Malabar had shown to a certain Venetian a rosary of three

hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he worshipped.



When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII.

of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to Brantôme,

and his cap had double rows of rubles that threw out a great light.

Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred and

twenty-one diamonds. Richard II. had a coat, valued at thirty thousand

marks, which was covered with balas rubies. Hall described Henry VIII.,

on his way to the Tower previous to his coronation, as wearing "a jacket

of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds and other rich

stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large balasses." The

favourites of James I. wore earrings of emeralds set in gold filigrane.

Edward II. gave to Piers Gaveston a suit of red-gold armour studded with

jacinths, a collar of gold roses set with turquoise-stones, and a

skull-cap _parsemé_ with pearls. Henry II. wore jewelled gloves

reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies and

fifty-two great orients. The ducal hat of Charles the Rash, the last

Duke of Burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped pearls, and

studded with sapphires.



How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and

decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.



Then he turned his attention to embroideries, and to the tapestries that

performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms of the Northern

nations of Europe. As he investigated the subject--and he always had an

extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in

whatever he took up--he was almost saddened by the reflection of the

ruin that Time brought on beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any

rate, had escaped that. Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils

bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of

their shame, but he was unchanged. No winter marred his face or stained

his flower-like bloom. How different it was with material things! Where

had they passed to? Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which

the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls

for the pleasure of Athena? Where, the huge velarium that Nero had

stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on

which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot drawn

by white gilt-reined steeds? He longed to see the curious table-napkins

wrought for the Priest of the Sun, on which were displayed all the

dainties and viands that could be wanted for a feast; the mortuary cloth

of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden bees; the fantastic

robes that excited the indignation of the Bishop of Pontus, and were

figured with "lions, panthers, bears, dogs, forests, rocks,

hunters--all, in fact, that a painter can copy from nature;" and the

coat that Charles of Orleans once wore, on the sleeves of which were

embroidered the verses of a song beginning "_Madame, je suis tout

joyeux_," the musical accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold

thread, and each note, of square shape in those days, formed with four

pearls. He read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims

for the use of Queen Joan of Burgundy, and was decorated with "thirteen

hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the

king's arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings

were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked

in gold." Catherine de Médicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black

velvet powdered with crescents and suns. Its curtains were of damask,

with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground,

and fringed along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in a

room hung with rows of the queen's devices in cut black velvet upon

cloth of silver. Louis XIV. had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen feet

high in his apartment. The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland, was

made of Smyrna gold brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses from

the Koran. Its supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased, and

profusely set with enamelled and jewelled medallions. It had been taken

from the Turkish camp before Vienna, and the standard of Mohammed had

stood beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy.



And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite

specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting

the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates, and

stitched over with iridescent beetles' wings; the Dacca gauzes, that

from their transparency are known in the East as "woven air," and

"running water," and "evening dew"; strange figured cloths from Java;

elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair

blue silks, and wrought with _fleurs de lys_, birds, and images; veils

of _lacis_ worked in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades, and stiff

Spanish velvets; Georgian work with its gilt coins, and Japanese

_Foukousas_ with their green-toned golds and their marvellously-plumaged

birds.



He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed

he had for everything connected with the service of the Church. In the

long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his house he had stored

away many rare and beautiful specimens of what is really the raiment of

the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple and jewels and fine linen that

she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by the suffering

that she seeks for, and wounded by self-inflicted pain. He possessed a

gorgeous cope of crimson silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a

repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set in six-petalled formal

blossoms, beyond which on either side was the pine-apple device wrought

in seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided into panels representing

scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the Virgin was

figured in coloured silks upon the hood. This was Italian work of the

fifteenth century. Another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with

heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves, from which spread long-stemmed

white blossoms, the details of which were picked out with silver thread

and coloured crystals. The morse bore a seraph's head in gold-thread

raised work. The orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk,

and were starred with medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom

was St. Sebastian. He had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and

blue silk and gold brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold,

figured with representations of the Passion and Crucifixion of Christ,

and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of

white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and dolphins and

_fleurs de lys_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen; and

many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic offices to

which such things were put, there was something that quickened his

imagination.


