"I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am jealous of

the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep what I must

lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me, and gives

something to it. Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture could

change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint it? It

will mock me some day--mock me horribly!" The hot tears welled into his

eyes; he tore his hand away, and, flinging himself on the divan, he

buried his face in the cushions, as though he was praying.



"This is your doing, Harry," said the painter, bitterly.



Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. "It is the real Dorian Gray--that is

all."



"It is not."



"If it is not, what have I to do with it?"



"You should have gone away when I asked you," he muttered.



"I stayed when you asked me," was Lord Henry's answer.



"Harry, I can't quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between

you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever

done, and I will destroy it. What is it but canvas and colour? I will

not let it come across our three lives and mar them."



Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid face

and tear-stained eyes looked at him, as he walked over to the deal

painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window. What was

he doing there? His fingers were straying about among the litter of tin

tubes and dry brushes, seeking for something. Yes, it was for the long

palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel. He had found it at

last. He was going to rip up the canvas.



With a stifled sob the lad leaped from the couch, and, rushing over to

Hallward, tore the knife out of his hand, and flung it to the end of the

studio. "Don't, Basil, don't!" he cried. "It would be murder!"



"I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian," said the painter,

coldly, when he had recovered from his surprise. "I never thought you

would."



"Appreciate it? I am in love with it, Basil. It is part of myself. I

feel that."



"Well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and

sent home. Then you can do what you like with yourself." And he walked

across the room and rang the bell for tea. "You will have tea, of

course, Dorian? And so will you, Harry? Or do you object to such simple

pleasures?"



"I adore simple pleasures," said Lord Henry. "They are the last refuge

of the complex. But I don't like scenes, except on the stage. What

absurd fellows you are, both of you! I wonder who it was defined man as

a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man

is many things, but he is not rational. I am glad he is not, after all:

though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. You had

much better let me have it, Basil. This silly boy doesn't really want

it, and I really do."



"If you let anyone have it but me, Basil, I shall never forgive you!"

cried Dorian Gray; "and I don't allow people to call me a silly boy."



"You know the picture is yours, Dorian. I gave it to you before it

existed."



"And you know you have been a little silly, Mr. Gray, and that you don't

really object to being reminded that you are extremely young."



"I should have objected very strongly this morning, Lord Henry."



"Ah! this morning! You have lived since then."



There came a knock at the door, and the butler entered with a laden

tea-tray and set it down upon a small Japanese table. There was a rattle

of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted Georgian urn. Two

globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page. Dorian Gray went

over and poured out the tea. The two men sauntered languidly to the

table, and examined what was under the covers.



"Let us go to the theatre to-night," said Lord Henry. "There is sure to

be something on, somewhere. I have promised to dine at White's, but it

is only with an old friend, so I can send him a wire to say that I am

ill, or that I am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent

engagement. I think that would be a rather nice excuse: it would have

all the surprise of candour."



"It is such a bore putting on one's dress-clothes," muttered Hallward.

"And, when one has them on, they are so horrid."



"Yes," answered Lord Henry, dreamily, "the costume of the nineteenth

century is detestable. It is so sombre, so depressing. Sin is the only

real colour-element left in modern life."



"You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry."



"Before which Dorian? The one who is pouring out tea for us, or the one

in the picture?"



"Before either."



"I should like to come to the theatre with you, Lord Henry," said the

lad.



"Then you shall come; and you will come too, Basil, won't you?"



"I can't really. I would sooner not. I have a lot of work to do."



"Well, then, you and I will go alone, Mr. Gray."



"I should like that awfully."



The painter bit his lip and walked over, cup in hand, to the picture. "I

shall stay with the real Dorian," he said, sadly.



"Is it the real Dorian?" cried the original of the portrait, strolling

across to him. "Am I really like that?"



"Yes; you are just like that."



"How wonderful, Basil!"



"At least you are like it in appearance. But it will never alter,"

sighed Hallward. "That is something."



"What a fuss people make about fidelity!" exclaimed Lord Henry. "Why,

even in love it is purely a question for physiology. It has nothing to

do with our own will. Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old

men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say."



"Don't go to the theatre to-night, Dorian," said Hallward. "Stop and

dine with me."



"I can't, Basil."



"Why?"



"Because I have promised Lord Henry Wotton to go with him."



"He won't like you the better for keeping your promises. He always

breaks his own. I beg you not to go."



Dorian Gray laughed and shook his head.



"I entreat you."



The lad hesitated, and looked over at Lord Henry, who was watching them

from the tea-table with an amused smile.



"I must go, Basil," he answered.



"Very well," said Hallward; and he went over and laid down his cup on

the tray. "It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better

lose no time. Good-bye, Harry. Good-bye, Dorian. Come and see me soon.

Come to-morrow."



"Certainly."



"You won't forget?"



"No, of course not," cried Dorian.



"And... Harry!"



"Yes, Basil?"



"Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning."



"I have forgotten it."



"I trust you."



"I wish I could trust myself," said Lord Henry, laughing. "Come, Mr.

Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.

Good-bye, Basil. It has been a most interesting afternoon."



As the door closed behind them, the painter flung himself down on a

sofa, and a look of pain came into his face.




