HEROD



And I have never broken my word. I am not of those who break

their oaths. I know not how to lie. I am the slave of my word,

and my word is the word of a king. The King of Cappadocia always

lies, but he is no true king. He is a coward. Also he owes me

money that he will not repay. He has even insulted my

ambassadors. He has spoken words that were wounding. But Cæsar

will crucify him when he comes to Rome. I am sure that Cæsar will

crucify him. And if not, yet will he die, being eaten of worms.

The prophet has prophesied it. Well! wherefore dost thou tarry,

Salomé?



SALOMÉ



I am awaiting until my slaves bring perfumes to me and the seven

veils, and take off my sandals. [_Slaves bring perfumes and the

seven veils, and take off the sandals of Salomé._]



HEROD



Ah, you are going to dance with naked feet. 'Tis well!--'Tis

well. Your little feet will be like white doves. They will be

like little white flowers that dance upon the trees.... No, no,

she is going to dance on blood. There is blood spilt on the

ground. She must not dance on blood. It were an evil omen.



HERODIAS



What is it to you if she dance on blood? Thou hast waded deep

enough therein....



HEROD



What is it to me? Ah! look at the moon! She has become red. She

has become red as blood. Ah! the prophet prophesied truly. He

prophesied that the moon would become red as blood. Did he not

prophesy it? All of you heard him. And now the moon has become

red as blood. Do ye not see it?



HERODIAS



Oh, yes, I see it well, and the stars are falling like ripe figs,

are they not? and the sun is becoming black like sackcloth of

hair, and the kings of the earth are afraid. That at least one

can see. The prophet, for once in his life, was right, the kings

of the earth are afraid.... Let us go within. You are sick. They

will say at Rome that you are mad. Let us go within, I tell you.



THE VOICE OF JOKANAAN



Who is this who cometh from Edom, who is this who cometh from

Bozra, whose raiment is dyed with purple, who shineth in the

beauty of his garments, who walketh mighty in his greatness?

Wherefore is thy raiment stained with scarlet?



HERODIAS



Let us go within. The voice of that man maddens me. I will not

have my daughter dance while he is continually crying out. I will

not have her dance while you look at her in this fashion. In a

word, I will not have her dance.



HEROD



Do not rise, my wife, my queen, it will avail thee nothing. I

will not go within till she hath danced. Dance, Salomé, dance for

me.



HERODIAS



Do not dance, my daughter.



SALOMÉ



I am ready, Tetrarch.



[_Salomé dances the dance of the seven veils._]



HEROD



Ah! wonderful! wonderful! You see that she has danced for me,

your daughter. Come near, Salomé, come near, that I may give you

your reward. Ah! I pay the dancers well. I will pay thee royally.

I will give thee whatsoever thy soul desireth. What wouldst thou

have? Speak.



SALOMÉ



[_Kneeling_].



I would that they presently bring me in a silver charger....



HEROD



[Laughing.]



In a silver charger? Surely yes, in a silver charger. She is

charming, is she not? What is it you would have in a silver

charger, O sweet and fair Salomé, you who are fairer than all the

daughters of Judæa? What would you have them bring thee in a

silver charger? Tell me. Whatsoever it may be, they shall give it

you. My treasures belong to thee. What is it, Salomé?



SALOMÉ



[_Rising_].



The head of Jokanaan.



HERODIAS



Ah! that is well said, my daughter.



HEROD



No, no!



HERODIAS



That is well said, my daughter.



HEROD



No, no, Salomé. You do not ask me that. Do not listen to your

mother's voice. She is ever giving you evil counsel. Do not heed

her.



SALOMÉ



I do not heed my mother. It is for mine own pleasure that I ask

the head of Jokanaan in a silver charger. You hath sworn, Herod.

Forget not that you have sworn an oath.



HEROD



I know it. I have sworn by my gods. I know it well. But I pray

you, Salomé, ask of me something else. Ask of me the half of my

kingdom, and I will give it you. But ask not of me what you have

asked.



SALOMÉ



I ask of you the head of Jokanaan.



HEROD



No, no, I do not wish it.



SALOMÉ



You have sworn, Herod.



HERODIAS



Yes, you have sworn. Everybody heard you. You swore it before

everybody.



HEROD



Be silent! It is not to you I speak.



HERODIAS



My daughter has done well to ask the head of Jokanaan. He has

covered me with insults. He has said monstrous things against me.

One can see that she loves her mother well. Do not yield, my

daughter. He has sworn, he has sworn.



HEROD



Be silent, speak not to me!... Come, Salomé, be reasonable. I

have never been hard to you. I have ever loved you.... It may be

that I have loved you too much. Therefore ask not this thing of

me. This is a terrible thing, an awful thing to ask of me.

Surely, I think thou art jesting. The head of a man that is cut

from his body is ill to look upon, is it not? It is not meet

that the eyes of a virgin should look upon such a thing. What

pleasure could you have in it? None. No, no, it is not what you

desire. Hearken to me. I have an emerald, a great round emerald,

which Cæsar's minion sent me. If you look through this emerald

you can see things which happen at a great distance. Cæsar

himself carries such an emerald when he goes to the circus. But

my emerald is larger. I know well that it is larger. It is the

largest emerald in the whole world. You would like that, would

you not? Ask it of me and I will give it you.
