For these treasures, and everything that he collected in his lovely

house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he could

escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to him at times to be

almost too great to be borne. Upon the walls of the lonely locked room

where he had spent so much of his boyhood, he had hung with his own

hands the terrible portrait whose changing features showed him the real

degradation of his life, and in front of it had draped the

purple-and-gold pall as a curtain.him how vile and full of shame it looked?

Even if he told them, would they believe it?



Yet he was afraid. Sometimes when he was down at his great house in

Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank

who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton

luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly

leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been

tampered with, and that the picture was still there. What if it should

be stolen? The mere thought made him cold with horror. Surely the world

would know his secret then. Perhaps the world already suspected it.



For, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him.

He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth and

social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said

that on one occasion when he was brought by a friend into the

smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another gentleman

got up in a marked manner and went out. Curious stories became current

about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year. It was rumoured

that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a low den in the

distant parts of Whitechapel, and that he consorted with thieves and

coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade. His extraordinary

absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in

society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a

sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were

determined to discover his secret.



Of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice,

and in the opinion of most people his frank debonair manner, his

charming boyish smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth

that seemed never to leave him, were in themselves a sufficient answer

to the calumnies, for so they termed them, that were circulated about

him. It was remarked, however, that some of those who had been most

intimate with him appeared, after a time, to shun him. Women who had

wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and

set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or

horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.



Yet these whispered scandals only increased, in the eyes of many, his

strange and dangerous charm. His great wealth was a certain element of

security. Society, civilised society at least, is never very ready to

believe anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and

fascinating. It feels instinctively that manners are of more importance

than morals, and, in its opinion, the highest respectability is of much

less value than the possession of a good _chef_. And, after all, it is a

very poor consolation to be told that the man who has given one a bad

dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life. Even the

cardinal virtues cannot atone for half-cold _entrées_, as Lord Henry

remarked once, in a discussion on the subject; and there is possibly a

good deal to be said for his view. For the canons of good society are,

or should be, the same as the canons of art. Form is absolutely

essential to it. It should have the dignity of a ceremony, as well as

its unreality, and should combine the insincere character of a romantic

play with the wit and beauty that make such plays delightful to us. Is

insincerity such a terrible thing? I think not. It is merely a method by

which we can multiply our personalities.



Such, at any rate, was Dorian Gray's opinion. He used to wonder at the

shallow psychology of those who conceive the Ego in man as a thing

simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence. To him, man was a being

with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature

that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and passion, and

whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies of the dead. He

loved to stroll through the gaunt cold picture-gallery of his country

house and look at the various portraits of those whose blood flowed in

his veins. Here was Philip Herbert, described by Francis Osborne, in

his "Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and King James," as one

who was "caressed by the Court for his handsome face, which kept him not

long company." Was it young Herbert's life that he sometimes led? Had

some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached

his own? Was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so

suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in Basil Hallward's

studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life? Here, in

gold-embroidered red doublet, jewelled surcoat, and gilt-edged ruff and

wrist-bands, stood Sir Anthony Sherard, with his silver-and-black armour

piled at his feet. What had this man's legacy been? Had the lover of

Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame?

Were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared

to realise? Here, from the fading canvas, smiled Lady Elizabeth

Devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl stomacher, and pink slashed sleeves.

A flower was in her right hand, and her left clasped an enamelled collar

of white and damask roses. On a table by her side lay a mandolin and an

apple. There were large green rosettes upon her little pointed shoes. He

knew her life, and the strange stories that were told about her lovers.

Had he something of her temperament in him? These oval heavy-lidded eyes

seemed to look curiously at him. What of George Willoughby, with his

powdered hair and fantastic patches? How evil he looked! The face was

saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with

disdain. Delicate lace ruffles fell over the lean yellow hands that were

so over-laden with rings. He had been a macaroni of the eighteenth

century, and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars. What of the

second Lord Beckenham, the companion of the Prince Regent in his wildest

days, and one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with Mrs.

Fitzherbert? How proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and

insolent pose! What passions had he bequeathed? The world had looked

upon him as infamous. He had led the orgies at Carlton House. The star

of the Garter glittered upon his breast. Beside him hung the portrait of

his wife, a pallid, thin-lipped woman in black. Her blood, also, stirred

within him. How curious it all seemed! And his mother with her Lady

Hamilton face, and her moist wine-dashed lips--he knew what he had got

from her. He had got from her his beauty, and his passion for the beauty

of others. She laughed at him in her loose Bacchante dress. There were

vine leaves in her hair. The purple spilled from the cup she was

holding. The carnations of the painting had withered, but the eyes were

still wonderful in their depth and brilliancy of colour. They seemed to

follow him wherever he went.



Yet one had ancestors in literature, as well as in one's own race,

nearer perhaps in type and temperament, many of them, and certainly with

an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious. There were

times when it appeared to Dorian Gray that the whole of history was

merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and

circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had

been in his brain and in his passions. He felt that he had known them

all, those strange terrible figures that had passed across the stage of

the world and made sin so marvellous, and evil so full of subtlety. It

seemed to him that in some mysterious way their lives had been his own.



The hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had

himself known this curious fancy. In the seventh chapter he tells how,

crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as

Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of

Elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him, and the

flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had

caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables and supped in

an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as Domitian, had

wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round

with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his

days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _tædium vitæ_, that comes

on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear

emerald at the red shambles of the Circus, and then, in a litter of

pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the

Street of Pomegranates to a House of Gold, and heard men cry on Nero

Cæsar as he passed by; and, as Elagabalus, had painted his face with

colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon

from Carthage, and given her in mystic marriage to the Sun.



Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the

two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious

tapestries or cunningly-wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and

beautiful forms of those whom Vice and Blood and Weariness had made

monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife, and painted

her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the

dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the

Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and

whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the

price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase

living men, and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot

who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide riding

beside him, and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto; Pietro

Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and minion of

Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who

received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk,

filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve at

the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured

only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as

other men have for red wine--the son of the Fiend, as was reported, and

one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his

own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the name of Innocent,

and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a

Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of Isotta, and the lord

of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the enemy of God and man,

who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to Ginevra d'Este

in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a shameful passion built a pagan

church for Christian worship; Charles VI., who had so wildly adored his

brother's wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was

coming on him, and who, when his brain had sickened and grown strange,

could only be soothed by Saracen cards painted with the images of Love

and Death and Madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and

acanthus-like curls, Grifonetto Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his

bride, and Simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that,

as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him

could not choose but weep, and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed

him.



There was a horrible fascination in them all. He saw them at night, and

they troubled his imagination in the day. The Renaissance knew of

strange manners of poisoning--poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch,

by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by

an amber chain. Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book. There were

moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could

realise his conception of the beautiful.
