It was long past noon when he awoke. His valet had crept several times

on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what

made his young master sleep so late. Finally his bell sounded, and

Victor came softly in with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a

small tray of old Sèvres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains,

with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall

windows.



"Monsieur has well slept this morning," he said, smiling.



"What o'clock is it, Victor?" asked Dorian Gray, drowsily.



"One hour and a quarter, Monsieur."



How late it was! He sat up, and, having sipped some tea, turned over his

letters. One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand

that morning. He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. The

others he opened listlessly. They contained the usual collection of

cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of

charity concerts, and the like, that are showered on fashionable young

men every morning during the season. There was a rather heavy bill, for

a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set, that he had not yet had the

courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned

people and did not realise that we live in an age when unnecessary

things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously

worded communiations from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to

advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most reasonable

rates of interest.



After about ten minutes he got up, and, throwing on an elaborate

dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the

onyx-paved bathroom. The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep.

He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through. A dim sense of

having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice, but

there was the unreality of a dream about it.



As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down to a

light French breakfast, that had been laid out for him on a small round

table close to the open window. It was an exquisite day. The warm air

seemed laden with spices. A bee flew in, and buzzed round the

blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before

him. He felt perfectly happy.



Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the

portrait, and he started.



"Too cold for Monsieur?" asked his valet, putting an omelette on the

table. "I shut the window?"



Dorian shook his head. "I am not cold," he murmured.



Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed? Or had it been simply

his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had

been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could not alter? The thing

was absurd. It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. It would

make him smile.



And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! First in

the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of

cruelty round the warped lips. He almost dreaded his valet leaving the

room. He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the

portrait. He was afraid of certainty. When the coffee and cigarettes

had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell

him to remain. As the door was closing behind him he called him back.

The man stood waiting for his orders. Dorian looked at him for a moment.

"I am not at home to anyone, Victor," he said, with a sigh. The man

bowed and retired.



Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on

a luxuriously-cushioned couch that stood facing the screen. The screen

was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather, stamped and wrought with a

rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern. He scanned it curiously, wondering

if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man's life.



Should he move it aside, after all? Why not let it stay there? What was

the use of knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible. If it was

not true, why trouble about it? But what if, by some fate or deadlier

chance, eyes other than his spied behind, and saw the horrible change?

What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own

picture? Basil would be sure to do that. No; the thing had to be

examined, and at once. Anything would be better than this dreadful state

of doubt.



He got up, and locked both doors. At least he would be alone when he

looked upon the mask of his shame. Then he drew the screen aside, and

saw himself face to face. It was perfectly true. The portrait had

altered.



As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he

found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost

scientific interest. That such a change should have taken place was

incredible to him. And yet it was a fact. Was there some subtle affinity

between the chemical atoms, that shaped themselves into form and colour

on the canvas, and the soul that was within him? Could it be that what

that soul thought, they realized?--that what it dreamed, they made true?

Or was there some other, more terrible reason? He shuddered, and felt

afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the picture

in sickened horror.



One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. It had made him

conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane. It was not

too late to make reparation for that. She could still be his wife. His

unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be

transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that Basil

Hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life, would

be to him what holiness is to some, and conscience to others, and the

fear of God to us all. There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could

lull the moral sense to sleep. But here was a visible symbol of the

degradation of sin. Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men

brought upon their souls.



Three o'clock struck, and four, and the half-hour rang its double chime,

but Dorian Gray did not stir. He was trying to gather up the scarlet

threads of life, and to weave them into a pattern; to find his way

through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was

wandering. He did not know what to do, or what to think. Finally, he

went over to the table, and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had

loved, imploring her forgiveness, and accusing himself of madness. He

covered page after page with wild words of sorrow, and wilder words of

pain. There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we

feel that no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession, not

the priest, that gives us absolution. When Dorian had finished the

letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.



Suddenly there came a knock to the door, and he heard Lord Henry's voice

outside. "My dear boy, I must see you. Let me in at once. I can't bear

your shutting yourself up like this."



He made no answer at first, but remained quite still. The knocking

still continued, and grew louder. Yes, it was better to let Lord Henry

in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel

with him if it became necessary to quarrel, to part if parting was

inevitable. He jumped up, drew the screen hastily across the picture,

and unlocked the door.



"I am so sorry for it all, Dorian," said Lord Henry, as he entered. "But

you must not think too much about it."



"Do you mean about Sibyl Vane?" asked the lad.



"Yes, of course," answered Lord Henry, sinking into a chair, and slowly

pulling off his yellow gloves. "It is dreadful, from one point of view,

but it was not your fault. Tell me, did you go behind and see her, after

the play was over?"



"Yes."



"I felt sure you had. Did you make a scene with her?"



"I was brutal, Harry--perfectly brutal. But it is all right now. I am

not sorry for anything that has happened. It has taught me to know

myself better."



"Ah, Dorian, I am so glad you take it in that way! I was afraid I would

find you plunged in remorse, and tearing that nice curly hair of yours."



"I have got through all that," said Dorian, shaking his head, and

smiling. "I am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin

with. It is not what you told me it was. It is the divinest thing in us.

Don't sneer at it, Harry, any more--at least not before me. I want to be

good. I can't bear the idea of my soul being hideous."



"A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian! I congratulate you

on it. But how are you going to begin?"



"By marrying Sibyl Vane."



"Marrying Sibyl Vane!" cried Lord Henry, standing up, and looking at him

in perplexed amazement. "But, my dear Dorian----"



"Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say. Something dreadful about

marriage. Don't say it. Don't ever say things of that kind to me again.

Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me. I am not going to break my word

to her. She is to be my wife!"



"Your wife! Dorian!... Didn't you get my letter? I wrote to you this

morning, and sent the note down, by my own man."



"Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry. I was

afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn't like. You cut life

to pieces with your epigrams."



"You know nothing then?"



"What do you mean?"



Lord Henry walked across the room, and, sitting down by Dorian Gray,

took both his hands in his own, and held them tightly. "Dorian," he

said, "my letter--don't be frightened--was to tell you that Sibyl Vane

is dead."



A cry of pain broke from the lad's lips, and he leaped to his feet,

tearing his hands away from Lord Henry's grasp. "Dead! Sibyl dead! It is

not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it?"



"It is quite true, Dorian," said Lord Henry, gravely. "It is in all the

morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see anyone till I

came. There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be

mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris. But in

London people are so prejudiced. Here, one should never make one's

_début_ with a scandal. One should reserve that to give an interest to

one's old age. I suppose they don't know your name at the theatre? If

they don't, it is all right. Did anyone see you going round to her room?

That is an important point."



Dorian did not answer for a few moments. He was dazed with horror.

Finally he stammered in a stifled voice, "Harry, did you say an

inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl----? Oh, Harry, I can't

bear it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once."



"I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put

in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving the theatre

with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had

forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for her, but she did

not come down again. They ultimately found her lying dead on the floor

of her dressing-room. She had swallowed something by mistake, some

dreadful thing they use at theatres. I don't know what it was, but it

had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was

prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously."



"Harry, Harry, it is terrible!" cried the lad.



"Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed

up in it. I see by _The Standard_ that she was seventeen. I should have

thought she was almost younger than that. She looked such a child, and

seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn't let this

thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and afterwards

we will look in at the Opera. It is a Patti night, and everybody will be

there. You can come to my sister's box. She has got some smart women

with her."
