This was the man Dorian Gray was waiting for. Every second he kept

glancing at the clock. As the minutes went by he became horribly

agitated. At last he got up, and began to pace up and down the room,

looking like a beautiful caged thing. He took long stealthy strides. His

hands were curiously cold.



The suspense became unbearable. Time seemed to him to be crawling with

feet of lead, while he by monstrous winds was being swept towards the

jagged edge of some black cleft of precipice. He knew what was waiting

for him there; saw it indeed, and, shuddering, crushed with dank hands

his burning lids as though he would have robbed the very brain of sight,

and driven the eyeballs back into their cave. It was useless. The brain

had its own food on which it battened, and the imagination, made

grotesque by terror, twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain,

danced like some foul puppet on a stand, and grinned through moving

masks. Then, suddenly, Time stopped for him. Yes: that blind,

slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, Time being

dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its

grave, and showed it to him. He stared at it. Its very horror made him

stone.



At last the door opened, and his servant entered. He turned glazed eyes

upon him.



"Mr. Campbell, sir," said the man.



A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back

to his cheeks.



"Ask him to come in at once, Francis." He felt that he was himself

again. His mood of cowardice had passed away.



The man bowed, and retired. In a few moments Alan Campbell walked in,

looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his

coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.



"Alan! this is kind of you. I thank you for coming."



"I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it

was a matter of life and death." His voice was hard and cold. He spoke

with slow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady

searching gaze that he turned on Dorian. He kept his hands in the

pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not to have noticed the

gesture with which he had been greeted.



"Yes: it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one

person. Sit down."



Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him. The

two men's eyes met. In Dorian's there was infinite pity. He knew that

what he was going to do was dreadful.



After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very

quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him he

had sent for, "Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room

to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table.

He has been dead ten hours now. Don't stir, and don't look at me like

that. Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not

concern you. What you have to do is this----"



"Stop, Gray. I don't want to know anything further. Whether what you

have told me is true or not true, doesn't concern me. I entirely decline

to be mixed up in your life. Keep your horrible secrets to yourself.

They don't interest me any more."



"Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest

you. I am awfully sorry for you, Alan. But I can't help myself. You are

the one man who is able to save me. I am forced to bring you into the

matter. I have no option. Alan, you are scientific. You know about

chemistry, and things of that kind. You have made experiments. What you

have got to do is to destroy the thing that is upstairs--to destroy it

so that not a vestige of it will be left. Nobody saw this person come

into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in

Paris. He will not be missed for months. When he is missed, there must

be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and

everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may

scatter in the air."



"You are mad, Dorian."



"Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian."



"You are mad, I tell you--mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to

help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing to

do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril my

reputation for you? What is it to me what devil's work you are up to?"



"It was suicide, Alan."



"I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy."



"Do you still refuse to do this for me?"



"Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I

don't care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be

sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of

all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? I should have

thought you knew more about people's characters. Your friend Lord Henry

Wotton can't have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has

taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You have

come to the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don't come to me."



"Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don't know what he had made me

suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the

marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the

result was the same."



"Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not

inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring in

the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a crime

without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to do with it."



"You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen to

me. Only listen, Alan. All I ask of you is to perform a certain

scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the

horrors that you do there don't affect you. If in some hideous

dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden

table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow through,

you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. You would not

turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong.

On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the

human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world, or

gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind. What I

want you to do is merely what you have often done before. Indeed, to

destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are accustomed to

work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence against me. If

it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless you

help me."



"I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent

to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me."



"Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you

came I almost fainted with terror. You may know terror yourself some

day. No! don't think of that. Look at the matter purely from the

scientific point of view. You don't inquire where the dead things on

which you experiment come from. Don't inquire now. I have told you too

much as it is. But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once, Alan."



"Don't speak about those days, Dorian: they are dead."



"The dead linger sometimes. The man upstairs will not go away. He is

sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan!

if you don't come to my assistance I am ruined. Why, they will hang me,

Alan! Don't you understand? They will hang me for what I have done."



"There is no good in prolonging this scene. I absolutely refuse to do

anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me."



"You refuse?"



"Yes."



"I entreat you, Alan."



"It is useless."



The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes. Then he stretched

out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He read

it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the table.

Having done this, he got up, and went over to the window.



Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and

opened it. As he read it, his face became ghastly pale, and he fell back

in his chair. A horrible sense of sickness came over him. He felt as if

his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.



After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round, and

came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.



"I am so sorry for you, Alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no

alternative. I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the

address. If you don't help me, I must send it. If you don't help me, I

will send it. You know what the result will be. But you are going to

help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now. I tried to spare you.

You will do me the justice to admit that. You were stern, harsh,

offensive. You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me--no

living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate

terms."



Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through him.



"Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The

thing is quite simple. Come, don't work yourself into this fever. The

thing has to be done. Face it, and do it."



A groan broke from Campbell's lips, and he shivered all over. The

ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be dividing

Time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too terrible to be

borne. He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his

forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already

come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead.

It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.



"Come, Alan, you must decide at once."



"I cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter

things.



"You must. You have no choice. Don't delay."



He hesitated a moment. "Is there a fire in the room upstairs?"



"Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos."


