When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o'clock, he saw a telegram

lying on the hall table. He opened it, and found it was from Dorian

Gray. It was to tell him that he was engaged to be married to Sibyl

Vane.





"Mother, mother, I am so happy!" whispered the girl, burying her face in

the lap of the faded, tired-looking woman who, with back turned to the

shrill intrusive light, was sitting in the one arm-chair that their

dingy sitting-room contained. "I am so happy!" she repeated, "and you

must be happy too!"



Mrs. Vane winced, and put her thin bismuth-whitened hands on her

daughter's head. "Happy!" she echoed, "I am only happy, Sibyl, when I

see you act. You must not think of anything but your acting. Mr. Isaacs

has been very good to us, and we owe him money."



The girl looked up and pouted. "Money, mother?" she cried, "what does

money matter? Love is more than money."



"Mr. Isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts, and to

get a proper outfit for James. You must not forget that, Sibyl. Fifty

pounds is a very large sum. Mr. Isaacs has been most considerate."



"He is not a gentleman, mother, and I hate the way he talks to me," said

the girl, rising to her feet, and going over to the window.



"I don't know how we could manage without him," answered the elder

woman, querulously.



Sibyl Vane tossed her head and laughed. "We don't want him any more,

mother. Prince Charming rules life for us now." Then she paused. A rose

shook in her blood, and shadowed her cheeks. Quick breath parted the

petals of her lips. They trembled. Some southern wind of passion swept

over her, and stirred the dainty folds of her dress. "I love him," she

said, simply.



"Foolish child! foolish child!" was the parrot-phrase flung in answer.

The waving of crooked, false-jewelled fingers gave grotesqueness to the

words.



The girl laughed again. The joy of a caged bird was in her voice. Her

eyes caught the melody, and echoed it in radiance; then closed for a

moment, as though to hide their secret. When they opened, the mist of a

dream had passed across them.



Thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at prudence,

quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the name of common

sense. She did not listen. She was free in her prison of passion. Her

prince, Prince Charming, was with her. She had called on Memory to

remake him. She had sent her soul to search for him, and it had brought

him back. His kiss burned again upon her mouth. Her eyelids were warm

with his breath.



Then Wisdom altered its method and spoke of espial and discovery. This

young man might be rich. If so, marriage should be thought of. Against

the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly cunning. The arrows of

craft shot by her. She saw the thin lips moving, and smiled.



Suddenly she felt the need to speak. The wordy silence troubled her.

"Mother, mother," she cried, "why does he love me so much? I know why I

love him. I love him because he is like what Love himself should be. But

what does he see in me? I am not worthy of him. And yet--why, I cannot

tell--though I feel so much beneath him, I don't feel humble. I feel

proud, terribly proud. Mother, did you love my father as I love Prince

Charming?"



The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her

cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain. Sibyl rushed to

her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her. "Forgive me, mother.

I know it pains you to talk about our father. But it only pains you

because you loved him so much. Don't look so sad. I am as happy to-day

as you were twenty years ago. Ah! let me be happy for ever!"



"My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love. Besides,

what do you know of this young man? You don't even know his name. The

whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away

to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should

have shown more consideration. However, as I said before, if he is

rich...."



"Ah! Mother, mother, let me be happy!"



Mrs. Vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical

gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a stage-player,

clasped her in her arms. At this moment the door opened, and a young lad

with rough brown hair came into the room. He was thick-set of figure,

and his hands and feet were large, and somewhat clumsy in movement. He

was not so finely bred as his sister. One would hardly have guessed the

close relationship that existed between them. Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes

on him, and intensified the smile. She mentally elevated her son to the

dignity of an audience. She felt sure that the _tableau_ was

interesting.



"You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think," said the

lad, with a good-natured grumble.



"Ah! but you don't like being kissed, Jim," she cried. "You are a

dreadful old bear." And she ran across the room and hugged him.



James Vane looked into his sister's face with tenderness. "I want you to

come out with me for a walk, Sibyl. I don't suppose I shall ever see

this horrid London again. I am sure I don't want to."



"My son, don't say such dreadful things," murmured Mrs. Vane, taking up

a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it. She

felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group. It would

have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation.



"Why not, mother? I mean it."



"You pain me, my son. I trust you will return from Australia in a

position of affluence. I believe there is no society of any kind in the

Colonies, nothing that I would call society; so when you have made your

fortune you must come back and assert yourself in London."



"Society!" muttered the lad. "I don't want to know anything about that.

I should like to make some money to take you and Sibyl off the stage. I

hate it."



"Oh, Jim!" said Sibyl, laughing, "how unkind of you! But are you really

going for a walk with me? That will be nice! I was afraid you were going

to say good-bye to some of your friends--to Tom Hardy, who gave you that

hideous pipe, or Ned Langton, who makes fun of you for smoking it. It is

very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. Where shall we go?

Let us go to the Park."



"I am too shabby," he answered, frowning. "Only swell people go to the

Park."



"Nonsense, Jim," she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat.



He hesitated for a moment. "Very well," he said at last, "but don't be

too long dressing." She danced out of the door. One could hear her

singing as she ran upstairs. Her little feet pattered overhead.



He walked up and down the room two or three times. Then he turned to the

still figure in the chair. "Mother, are my things ready?" he asked.



"Quite ready, James," she answered, keeping her eyes on her work. For

some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this

rough, stern son of hers. Her shallow secret nature was troubled when

their eyes met. She used to wonder if he suspected anything. The

silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her.

She began to complain. Women defend themselves by attacking, just as

they attack by sudden and strange surrenders. "I hope you will be

contented, James, with your sea-faring life," she said. "You must

remember that it is your own choice. You might have entered a

solicitor's office. Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the

country often dine with the best families."



"I hate offices, and I hate clerks," he replied. "But you are quite

right. I have chosen my own life. All I say is, watch over Sibyl. Don't

let her come to any harm. Mother, you must watch over her."



"James, you really talk very strangely. Of course I watch over Sibyl."



"I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre, and goes behind to

talk to her. Is that right? What about that?"



"You are speaking about things you don't understand, James. In the

profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying

attention. I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time. That was

when acting was really understood. As for Sibyl, I do not know at

present whether her attachment is serious or not. But there is no doubt

that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman. He is always most

polite to me. Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and the

flowers he sends are lovely."



"You don't know his name, though," said the lad, harshly.



"No," answered his mother, with a placid expression in her face. "He has

not yet revealed his real name. I think it is quite romantic of him. He

is probably a member of the aristocracy."



James Vane bit his lip. "Watch over Sibyl, mother," he cried, "watch

over her."



"My son, you distress me very much. Sibyl is always under my special

care. Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why

she should not contract an alliance with him. I trust he is one of the

aristocracy. He has all the appearance of it, I must say. It might be a

most brilliant marriage for Sibyl. They would make a charming couple.

His good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them."



The lad muttered something to himself, and drummed on the window-pane

with his coarse fingers. He had just turned round to say something, when

the door opened, and Sibyl ran in.



"How serious you both are!" she cried. "What is the matter?"



"Nothing," he answered. "I suppose one must be serious sometimes.

Good-bye, mother; I will have my dinner at five o'clock. Everything is

packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble."



"Good-bye, my son," she answered, with a bow of strained stateliness.



She was extremely annoyed at the tone he had adopted with her, and there

was something in his look that had made her feel afraid.



"Kiss me, mother," said the girl. Her flower-like lips touched the

withered cheek, and warmed its frost.



"My child! my child!" cried Mrs. Vane, looking up to the ceiling in

search of an imaginary gallery.



"Come, Sibyl," said her brother, impatiently. He hated his mother's

affectations.



They went out into the flickering wind-blown sunlight, and strolled down

the dreary Euston Road. The passers-by glanced in wonder at the sullen,

heavy youth, who, in coarse, ill-fitting clothes, was in the company of

such a graceful, refined-looking girl. He was like a common gardener

walking with a rose.



Jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of

some stranger. He had that dislike of being stared at which comes on

geniuses late in life, and never leaves the commonplace. Sibyl, however,

was quite unconscious of the effect she was producing. Her love was

trembling in laughter on her lips. She was thinking of Prince Charming,

and, that she might think of him all the more, she did not talk of him

but prattled on about the ship in which Jim was going to sail, about

the gold he was certain to find, about the wonderful heiress whose life

he was to save from the wicked, red-shirted bushrangers. For he was not

to remain a sailor, or a super-cargo, or whatever he was going to be.

Oh, no! A sailor's existence was dreadful. Fancy being cooped up in a

horrid ship, with the hoarse, hump-backed waves trying to get in, and a

black wind blowing the masts down, and tearing the sails into long

screaming ribands! He was to leave the vessel at Melbourne, bid a polite

good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields. Before a

week was over he was to come across a large nugget of pure gold, the

largest nugget that had ever been discovered, and bring it down to the

coast in a waggon guarded by six mounted policemen. The bushrangers were

to attack them three times, and be defeated with immense slaughter. Or,

no. He was not to go to the gold-fields at all. They were horrid places,

where men got intoxicated, and shot each other in bar-rooms, and used

bad language. He was to be a nice sheep-farmer, and one evening, as he

was riding home, he was to see the beautiful heiress being carried off

by a robber on a black horse, and give chase, and rescue her. Of course

she would fall in love with him, and he with her, and they would get

married, and come home, and live in an immense house in London. Yes,

there were delightful things in store for him. But he must be very good,

and not lose his temper, or spend his money foolishly. She was only a

year older than he was, but she knew so much more of life. He must be

sure, also, to write to her by every mail, and to say his prayers each

night before he went to sleep. God was very good, and would watch over

him. She would pray for him, too, and in a few years he would come back

quite rich and happy.



The lad listened sulkily to her, and made no answer. He was heart-sick

at leaving home.



Yet it was not this alone that made him gloomy and morose.

Inexperienced though he was, he had still a strong sense of the danger

of Sibyl's position. This young dandy who was making love to her could

mean her no good. He was a gentleman, and he hated him for that, hated

him through some curious race-instinct for which he could not account,

and which for that reason was all the more dominant within him. He was

conscious also of the shallowness and vanity of his mother's nature, and

in that saw infinite peril for Sibyl and Sibyl's happiness. Children

begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge them;

sometimes they forgive them.


