"Yes, we are overcharged for everything nowadays. I should fancy that

the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but

self-denial. Beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege of

the rich."



"One has to pay in other ways but money."



"What sort of ways, Basil?"



"Oh! I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in... well, in the

consciousness of degradation."



Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. "My dear fellow, mediæval art is

charming, but mediæval emotions are out of date. One can use them in

fiction, of course. But then the only things that one can use in fiction

are the things that one has ceased to use in fact. Believe me, no

civilised man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilised man ever

knows what a pleasure is."



"I know what pleasure is," cried Dorian Gray. "It is to adore someone."



"That is certainly better than being adored," he answered, toying with

some fruits. "Being adored is a nuisance. Women treat us just as

Humanity treats its gods. They worship us, and are always bothering us

to do something for them."



"I should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to

us," murmured the lad, gravely. "They create Love in our natures. They

have a right to demand it back."



"That is quite true, Dorian," cried Hallward.



"Nothing is ever quite true," said Lord Henry.



"This is," interrupted Dorian. "You must admit, Harry, that women give

to men the very gold of their lives."



"Possibly," he sighed, "but they invariably want it back in such very

small change. That is the worry. Women, as some witty Frenchman once put

it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces, and always prevent us

from carrying them out."



"Harry, you are dreadful! I don't know why I like you so much."



"You will always like me, Dorian," he replied. "Will you have some

coffee, you fellows?--Waiter, bring coffee, and _fine-champagne_, and

some cigarettes. No: don't mind the cigarettes; I have some. Basil, I

can't allow you to smoke cigars. You must have a cigarette. A cigarette

is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it

leaves one unsatisfied. What more can one want? Yes, Dorian, you will

always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you have never had

the courage to commit."



"What nonsense you talk, Harry!" cried the lad, taking a light from a

fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table.

"Let us go down to the theatre. When Sibyl comes on the stage you will

have a new ideal of life. She will represent something to you that you

have never known."



"I have known everything," said Lord Henry, with a tired look in his

eyes, "but I am always ready for a new emotion. I am afraid, however,

that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing. Still, your wonderful

girl may thrill me. I love acting. It is so much more real than life.

Let us go. Dorian, you will come with me. I am so sorry, Basil, but

there is only room for two in the brougham. You must follow us in a

hansom."



They got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing. The

had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban. Lord Henry,

upon the other hand, rather liked him. At least he declared he did, and

insisted on shaking him by the hand, and assuring him that he was proud

to meet a man who had discovered a real genius and gone bankrupt over a

poet. Hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit. The

heat was terribly oppressive, and the huge sunlight flamed like a

monstrous dahlia with petals of yellow fire. The youths in the gallery

had taken off their coats and waistcoats and hung them over the side.

They talked to each other across the theatre, and shared their oranges

with the tawdry girls who sat beside them. Some women were laughing in

the pit. Their voices were horribly shrill and discordant. The sound of

the popping of corks came from the bar.



"What a place to find one's divinity in!" said Lord Henry.



"Yes!" answered Dorian Gray. "It was here I found her, and she is divine

beyond all living things. When she acts you will forget everything.

These common, rough people, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures,

become quite different when she is on the stage. They sit silently and

watch her. They weep and laugh as she wills them to do. She makes them

as responsive as a violin. She spiritualises them, and one feels that

they are of the same flesh and blood as one's self."



"The same flesh and blood as one's self! Oh, I hope not!" exclaimed Lord

Henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery through his

opera-glass.



"Don't pay any attention to him, Dorian," said the painter. "I

understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Anyone you love

must be marvellous, and any girl that has the effect you describe must

be fine and noble. To spiritualise one's age--that is something worth

doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without one,

if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have been

sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and lend

them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of all your

adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world. This marriage is quite

right. I did not think so at first, but I admit it now. The gods made

Sibyl Vane for you. Without her you would have been incomplete."



"Thanks, Basil," answered Dorian Gray, pressing his hand. "I knew that

you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. But here

is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five

minutes. Then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom I am

going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is good

in me."



A quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil of

applause, Sibyl Vane stepped on to the stage. Yes, she was certainly

lovely to look at--one of the loveliest creatures, Lord Henry thought,

that he had ever seen. There was something of the fawn in her shy grace

and startled eyes. A faint blush, like the shadow of a rose in a mirror

of silver, came to her cheeks as she glanced at the crowded,

enthusiastic house. She stepped back a few paces, and her lips seemed

to tremble. Basil Hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud.

Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her. Lord

Henry peered through his glasses, murmuring, "Charming! charming!"



The scene was the hall of Capulet's house, and Romeo in his pilgrim's

dress had entered with Mercutio and his other friends. The band, such as

it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began. Through the

crowd of ungainly, shabbily-dressed actors, Sibyl Vane moved like a

creature from a finer world. Her body swayed, while she danced, as a

plant sways in the water. The curves of her throat were the curves of a

white lily. Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory.



Yet she was curiously listless. She showed no sign of joy when her eyes

rested on Romeo. The few words she had to speak--



    Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,

    Which mannerly devotion shows in this;

    For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,

    And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss--



with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly

artificial manner. The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view

of tone it was absolutely false. It was wrong in colour. It took away

all the life from the verse. It made the passion unreal.



Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her. He was puzzled and anxious.

Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. She seemed to them

to be absolutely incompetent. They were horribly disappointed.



Yet they felt that the true test of any Juliet is the balcony scene of

the second act. They waited for that. If she failed there, there was

nothing in her.


