"I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory."



"No, Alan, you must not leave the house. Write out on a sheet of

note-paper what you want, and my servant will take a cab and bring the

things back to you."



Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope

to his assistant. Dorian took the note up and read it carefully. Then he

rang the bell, and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as soon

as possible, and to bring the things with him.



As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and, having got up

from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. He was shivering with a

kind of ague. For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke. A fly

buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like the

beat of a hammer.



As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and, looking at Dorian

Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. There was something in

the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him.

"You are infamous, absolutely infamous!" he muttered.



"Hush, Alan: you have saved my life," said Dorian.



"Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from

corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. In doing

what I am going to do, what you force me to do, it is not of your life

that I am thinking."



"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian, with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth

part of the pity for me that I have for you." He turned away as he

spoke, and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell made no answer.



After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant

entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long coil

of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously-shaped iron clamps.



"Shall I leave the things here, sir?" he asked Campbell.



"Yes," said Dorian. "And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another

errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies

Selby with orchids?"



"Harden, sir."



"Yes--Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden

personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and

to have as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don't want any white

ones. It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place,

otherwise I wouldn't bother you about it."



"No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back?"



Dorian looked at Campbell. "How long will your experiment take, Alan?"

he said, in a calm, indifferent voice. The presence of a third person in

the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.



Campbell frowned, and bit his lip. "It will take about five hours," he

answered.



"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven,

Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can have

the evening to yourself. I am not dining at home, so I shall not want

you."



"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.



"Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost. How heavy this chest is!

I'll take it for you. You bring the other things." He spoke rapidly, and

in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt dominated by him. They left

the room together.



When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it

in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes. He

shuddered. "I don't think I can go in, Alan," he murmured.



"It is nothing to me. I don't require you," said Campbell, coldly.



Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of his

portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the torn

curtain was lying. He remembered that, the night before he had

forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas, and

was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.



What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one

of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How horrible it

was!--more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent

thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose

grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had

not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.



He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with

half-closed eyes and averted head walked quickly in, determined that he

would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping down, and

taking up the gold and purple hanging, he flung it right over the

picture.



There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed

themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He heard

Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other

things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to wonder if

he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had thought of

each other.



"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.



He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been

thrust back into the chair, and that Campbell was gazing into a

glistening yellow face. As he was going downstairs he heard the key

being turned in the lock.



It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library. He was

pale, but absolutely calm. "I have done what you asked me to do," he

muttered. "And now, good-bye. Let us never see each other again."



"You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that," said Dorian,

simply.



As soon as Campbell had left, he went upstairs. There was a horrible

smell of nitric acid in the room. But the thing that had been sitting at

the table was gone.

That evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a large

buttonhole of Parma violets, Dorian Gray was ushered into Lady

Narborough's drawing-room by bowing servants. His forehead was throbbing

with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his manner as he

bent over his hostess's hand was as easy and graceful as ever. Perhaps

one never seems so much at one's ease as when one has to play a part.

Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray that night could have believed

that he had passed through a tragedy as horrible as any tragedy of our

age. Those finely-shaped fingers could never have clutched a knife for

sin, nor those smiling lips have cried out on God and goodness. He

himself could not help wondering at the calm of his demeanour, and for a

moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life.



It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady Narborough, who

was a very clever woman, with what Lord Henry used to describe as the

remains of really remarkable ugliness. She had proved an excellent wife

to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband

properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and

married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted

herself now to the pleasures of French fiction, French cookery, and

French _esprit_ when she could get it.



Dorian was one of her special favourites, and she always told him that

she was extremely glad she had not met him in early life. "I know, my

dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you," she used to say,

"and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake. It is most

fortunate that you were not thought of at the time. As it was, our

bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were so occupied in trying to

raise the wind, that I never had even a flirtation with anybody.

However, that was all Narborough's fault. He was dreadfully

short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking in a husband who never

sees anything."



Her guests this evening were rather tedious. The fact was, as she

explained to Dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her married

daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and, to make

matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her. "I think it is

most unkind of her, my dear," she whispered. "Of course I go and stay

with them every summer after I come from Homburg, but then an old woman

like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, I really wake them

up. You don't know what an existence they lead down there. It is pure

unadulterated country life. They get up early, because they have so much

to do, and go to bed early because they have so little to think about.

There has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since the time of

Queen Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep after dinner. You

shan't sit next either of them. You shall sit by me, and amuse me."



Dorian murmured a graceful compliment, and looked round the room. Yes:

it was certainly a tedious party. Two of the people he had never seen

before, and the others consisted of Ernest Harrowden, one of those

middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who have no enemies,

but are thoroughly disliked by their friends; Lady Ruxton, an

over-dressed woman of forty-seven, with a hooked nose, who was always

trying to get herself compromised, but was so peculiarly plain that to

her great disappointment no one would ever believe anything against

her; Mrs. Erlynne, a pushing nobody, with a delightful lisp, and

Venetian-red hair; Lady Alice Chapman, his hostess's daughter, a dowdy

dull girl, with one of those characteristic British faces, that, once

seen, are never remembered; and her husband, a red-cheeked,

white-whiskered creature who, like so many of his class, was under the

impression that inordinate joviality can atone for an entire lack of

ideas.



He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking at the

great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the

mauve-draped mantel-shelf, exclaimed: "How horrid of Henry Wotton to be

so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance, and he promised

faithfully not to disappoint me."



It was some consolation that Harry was to be there, and when the door

opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some

insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.






