she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her. It was

not nervousness. Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely

self-contained. It was simply bad art. She was a complete failure.



Even the common, uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their

interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk loudly and to

whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the

dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. The only person unmoved was

the girl herself.



When the second act was over there came a storm of hisses, and Lord

Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat. "She is quite

beautiful, Dorian," he said, "but she can't act. Let us go."



"I am going to see the play through," answered the lad, in a hard,

bitter voice. "I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening,

Harry. I apologise to you both."



"My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill," interrupted

Hallward. "We will come some other night."



"I wish she were ill," he rejoined. "But she seems to me to be simply

callous and cold. She has entirely altered. Last night she was a great

artist. This evening she is merely a commonplace, mediocre actress."



"Don't talk like that about anyone you love, Dorian. Love is a more

wonderful thing than Art."



"They are both simply forms of imitation," remarked Lord Henry. "But do

let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is not good for

one's morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don't suppose you will want

your wife to act. So what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a

wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life

as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience. There are

only two kinds of people who are really fascinating--people who know

absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing. Good

heavens, my dear boy, don't look so tragic! The secret of remaining

young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. Come to the club

with Basil and myself. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty

of Sibyl Vane. She is beautiful. What more can you want?"



"Go away, Harry," cried the lad. "I want to be alone. Basil, you must

go. Ah! can't you see that my heart is breaking?" The hot tears came to

his eyes. His lips trembled, and, rushing to the back of the box, he

leaned up against the wall, hiding his face in his hands.



"Let us go, Basil," said Lord Henry, with a strange tenderness in his

voice; and the two young men passed out together.



A few moments afterwards the footlights flared up, and the curtain rose

on the third act. Dorian Gray went back to his seat. He looked pale, and

proud, and indifferent. The play dragged on, and seemed interminable.

Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots, and laughing.

The whole thing was a _fiasco_. The last act was played to almost empty

benches. The curtain went down on a titter, and some groans.



As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the

greenroom. The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on

her face. Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire. There was a radiance

about her. Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own.



When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy

came over her. "How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!" she cried.



"Horribly!" he answered, gazing at her in amazement--"horribly! It was

dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You have no idea

what I suffered."



The girl smiled. "Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with

long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to

the red petals of her mouth--"Dorian, you should have understood. But

you understand now, don't you?"



"Understand what?" he asked, angrily.



"Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall never

act well again."



He shrugged his shoulders. "You are ill, I suppose. When you are ill you

shouldn't act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored. I

was bored."



She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy. An

ecstasy of happiness dominated her.



"Dorian, Dorian," she cried, "before I knew you, acting was the one

reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought

that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night, and Portia the other.

The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine

also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me

seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew

nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came--oh, my beautiful

love!--and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality

really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the

hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had

always played. To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that the

Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the

orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I had

to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to say.

You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a

reflection. You had made me understand what love really is. My love! my

love! Prince Charming! Prince of life! I have grown sick of shadows. You

are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do with the

puppets of a play? When I came on to-night, I could not understand how

it was that everything had gone from me. I thought that I was going to

be wonderful. I found that I could do nothing. Suddenly it dawned on my

soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to me. I heard them

hissing, and I smiled. What could they know of love such as ours? Take

me away, Dorian--take me away with you, where we can be quite alone. I

hate the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot

mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand

now what it signifies? Even if I could do it, it would be profanation

for me to play at being in love. You have made me see that."



He flung himself down on the sofa, and turned away his face. "You have

killed my love," he muttered.
