His mother! He had something on his mind to ask of her, something that

he had brooded on for many months of silence. A chance phrase that he

had heard at the theatre, a whispered sneer that had reached his ears

one night as he waited at the stage-door, had set loose a train of

horrible thoughts. He remembered it as if it had been the lash of a

hunting-crop across his face. His brows knit together into a wedge-like

furrow, and with a twitch of pain he bit his under-lip.



"You are not listening to a word I am saying, Jim," cried Sibyl, "and I

am making the most delightful plans for your future. Do say something."



"What do you want me to say?"



"Oh! that you will be a good boy, and not forget us," she answered,

smiling at him.



He shrugged his shoulders. "You are more likely to forget me, than I am

to forget you, Sibyl."



She flushed. "What do you mean, Jim?" she asked.



"You have a new friend, I hear. Who is he? Why have you not told me

about him? He means you no good."



"Stop, Jim!" she exclaimed. "You must not say anything against him. I

love him."



"Why, you don't even know his name," answered the lad. "Who is he? I

have a right to know."



"He is called Prince Charming. Don't you like the name? Oh! you silly

boy! you should never forget it. If you only saw him, you would think

him the most wonderful person in the world. Some day you will meet him:

when you come back from Australia. You will like him so much. Everybody

likes him, and I... love him. I wish you could come to the theatre

to-night. He is going to be there, and I am to play Juliet. Oh! how I

shall play it! Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet! To have him

sitting there! To play for his delight! I am afraid I may frighten the

company, frighten or enthrall them. To be in love is to surpass one's

self. Poor dreadful Mr. Isaacs will be shouting 'genius' to his loafers

at the bar. He has preached me as a dogma; to-night he will announce me

as a revelation. I feel it. And it is all his, his only, Prince

Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces. But I am poor beside

him. Poor? What does that matter? When poverty creeps in at the door,

love flies in through the window. Our proverbs want re-writing. They

were made in winter, and it is summer now; spring-time for me, I think,

a very dance of blossoms in blue skies."



"He is a gentleman," said the lad, sullenly.



"A Prince!" she cried, musically. "What more do you want?"



"He wants to enslave you."



"I shudder at the thought of being free."



"I want you to beware of him."



"To see him is to worship him, to know him is to trust him."



"Sibyl, you are mad about him."



She laughed, and took his arm. "You dear old Jim, you talk as if you

were a hundred. Some day you will be in love yourself. Then you will

know what it is. Don't look so sulky. Surely you should be glad to think

that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have ever

been before. Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and

difficult. But it will be different now. You are going to a new world,

and I have found one. Here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the

smart people go by."



They took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers. The tulip-beds across

the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire. A white dust, tremulous

cloud of orris-root it seemed, hung in the panting air. The

brightly-coloured parasols danced and dipped like monstrous butterflies.



She made her brother talk of himself, his hopes, his prospects. He spoke

slowly and with effort. They passed words to each other as players at a

game pass counters. Sibyl felt oppressed. She could not communicate her

joy. A faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all the echo she could

win. After some time she became silent. Suddenly she caught a glimpse of

golden hair and laughing lips, and in an open carriage with two ladies

Dorian Gray drove past.



She started to her feet. "There he is!" she cried.



"Who?" said Jim Vane.



"Prince Charming," she answered, looking after the victoria.



He jumped up, and seized her roughly by the arm. "Show him to me. Which

is he? Point him out. I must see him!" he exclaimed; but at that moment

the Duke of Berwick's four-in-hand came between, and when it had left

the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the Park.



"He is gone," murmured Sibyl, sadly. "I wish you had seen him."



"I wish I had, for as sure as there is a God in heaven, if he ever does

you any wrong I shall kill him."



She looked at him in horror. He repeated his words. They cut the air

like a dagger. The people round began to gape. A lady standing close to

her tittered.



"Come away, Jim; come away," she whispered. He followed her doggedly, as

she passed through the crowd. He felt glad at what he had said.



When they reached the Achilles Statue she turned round. There was pity

in her eyes that became laughter on her lips. She shook her head at him.

"You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that is all.

How can you say such horrible things? You don't know what you are

talking about. You are simply jealous and unkind. Ah! I wish you would

fall in love. Love makes people good, and what you said was wicked."



"I am sixteen," he answered, "and I know what I am about. Mother is no

help to you. She doesn't understand how to look after you. I wish now

that I was not going to Australia at all. I have a great mind to chuck

the whole thing up. I would, if my articles hadn't been signed."



"Oh, don't be so serious, Jim. You are like one of the heroes of those

silly melodramas mother used to be so fond of acting in. I am not going

to quarrel with you. I have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect

happiness. We won't quarrel. I know you would never harm anyone I love,

would you?"



"Not as long as you love him, I suppose," was the sullen answer.



"I shall love him for ever!" she cried.



"And he?"



"For ever, too!"



"He had better."



She shrank from him. Then she laughed and put her hand on his arm. He

was merely a boy.



At the Marble Arch they hailed an omnibus, which left them close to

their shabby home in the Euston Road. It was after five o'clock, and

Sibyl had to lie down for a couple of hours before acting. Jim insisted

that she should do so. He said that he would sooner part with her when

their mother was not present. She would be sure to make a scene, and he

detested scenes of every kind.



In Sibyl's own room they parted. There was jealousy in the lad's heart,

and a fierce, murderous hatred of the stranger who, as it seemed to him,

had come between them. Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck,

and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened, and kissed her

with real affection. There were tears in his eyes as he went downstairs.



His mother was waiting for him below. She grumbled at his unpunctuality,

as he entered. He made no answer, but sat down to his meagre meal. The

flies buzzed round the table, and crawled over the stained cloth.

Through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of street-cabs, he

could hear the droning voice devouring each minute that was left to him.



After some time, he thrust away his plate, and put his head in his

hands. He felt that he had a right to know. It should have been told to

him before, if it was as he suspected. Leaden with fear, his mother

watched him. Words dropped mechanically from her lips. A tattered lace

handkerchief twitched in her fingers. When the clock struck six, he got

up, and went to the door. Then he turned back, and looked at her. Their

eyes met. In hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy. It enraged him.



"Mother, I have something to ask you," he said. Her eyes wandered

vaguely about the room. She made no answer. "Tell me the truth. I have a

right to know. Were you married to my father?"



She heaved a deep sigh. It was a sigh of relief. The terrible moment,

the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she had dreaded,

had come at last, and yet she felt no terror. Indeed in some measure it

was a disappointment to her. The vulgar directness of the question

called for a direct answer. The situation had not been gradually led up

to. It was crude. It reminded her of a bad rehearsal.



"No," she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of life.



"My father was a scoundrel then?" cried the lad, clenching his fists.



She shook her head. "I knew he was not free. We loved each other very

much. If he had lived, he would have made provision for us. Don't speak

against him, my son. He was your father, and a gentleman. Indeed he was

highly connected."



An oath broke from his lips. "I don't care for myself," he exclaimed,

"but don't let Sibyl.... It is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love

with her, or says he is? Highly connected, too, I suppose."



For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman. Her

head drooped. She wiped her eyes with shaking hands. "Sibyl has a

mother," she murmured; "I had none."



The lad was touched. He went towards her, and stooping down he kissed

her. "I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father," he

said, "but I could not help it. I must go now. Good-bye. Don't forget

that you will only have one child now to look after, and believe me that

if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him down,

and kill him like a dog. I swear it."



The exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that

accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid to

her. She was familiar with the atmosphere. She breathed more freely, and

for the first time for many months she really admired her son. She would

have liked to have continued the scene on the same emotional scale, but

he cut her short. Trunks had to be carried down, and mufflers looked

for. The lodging-house drudge bustled in and out. There was the

bargaining with the cabman. The moment was lost in vulgar details. It

was with a renewed feeling of disappointment that she waved the tattered

lace handkerchief from the window, as her son drove away. She was

conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted. She consoled herself

by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she

had only one child to look after. She remembered the phrase. It had

pleased her. Of the threat she said nothing. It was vividly and

dramatically expressed. She felt that they would all laugh at it some

day.
