He could hear nothing but the drip, drip on the threadbare carpet. He

opened the door and went out on the landing. The house was absolutely

quiet. No one was about. For a few seconds he stood bending over the

balustrade, and peering down into the black seething well of darkness.

Then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in as

he did so.



The thing was still seated in the chair, straining over the table with

bowed head, and humped back, and long fantastic arms. Had it not been

for the red jagged tear in the neck, and the clotted black pool that was

slowly widening on the table, one would have said that the man was

simply asleep.



How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and, walking

over to the window, opened it, and stepped out on the balcony. The wind

had blown the fog away, and the sky was like a monstrous peacock's tail,

starred with myriads of golden eyes. He looked down, and saw the

policeman going his rounds and flashing the long beam of his lantern on

the doors of the silent houses. The crimson spot of a prowling hansom

gleamed at the corner, and then vanished. A woman in a fluttering shawl

was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went. Now and

then she stopped, and peered back. Once, she began to sing in a hoarse

voice. The policeman strolled over and said something to her. She

stumbled away, laughing. A bitter blast swept across the Square. The

gas-lamps flickered, and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their

black iron branches to and fro. He shivered, and went back, closing the

window behind him.



Having reached the door, he turned the key, and opened it. He did not

even glance at the murdered man. He felt that the secret of the whole

thing was not to realise the situation. The friend who had painted the

fatal portrait to which all his misery had been due, had gone out of his

life. That was enough.



Then he remembered the lamp. It was a rather curious one of Moorish

workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished

steel, and studded with coarse turquoises. Perhaps it might be missed by

his servant, and questions would be asked. He hesitated for a moment,

then he turned back and took it from the table. He could not help seeing

the dead thing. How still it was! How horribly white the long hands

looked! It was like a dreadful wax image.



Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs. The

woodwork creaked, and seemed to cry out as if in pain. He stopped

several times, and waited. No: everything was still. It was merely the

sound of his own footsteps.



When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner. They

must be hidden away somewhere. He unlocked a secret press that was in

the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own curious disguises, and

put them into it. He could easily burn them afterwards. Then he pulled

out his watch. It was twenty minutes to two.



He sat down, and began to think. Every year--every month, almost--men

were strangled in England for what he had done. There had been a madness

of murder in the air. Some red star had come too close to the earth....

And yet what evidence was there against him? Basil Hallward had left the

house at eleven. No one had seen him come in again. Most of the servants

were at Selby Royal. His valet had gone to bed.... Paris! Yes. It was to

Paris that Basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he had

intended. With his curious reserved habits, it would be months before

any suspicions would be aroused. Months! Everything could be destroyed

long before then.



A sudden thought struck him. He put on his fur coat and hat, and went

out into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread of the

policeman on the pavement outside, and seeing the flash of the

bull's-eye reflected in the window. He waited, and held his breath.



After a few moments he drew back the latch, and slipped out, shutting

the door very gently behind him. Then he began ringing the bell. In

about five minutes his valet appeared half dressed, and looking very

drowsy.



"I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis," he said, stepping in;

"but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it?"



"Ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the clock and

blinking.



"Ten minutes past two? How horribly late! You must wake me at nine

to-morrow. I have some work to do."



"All right, sir."



"Did anyone call this evening?"



"Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to

catch his train."



"Oh! I am sorry I didn't see him. Did he leave any message?"



"No, sir, except that he would write to you from Paris, if he did not

find you at the club."



"That will do, Francis. Don't forget to call me at nine to-morrow."



"No, sir."



The man shambled down the passage in his slippers.



Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat upon the table, and passed into the

library. For a quarter of an hour he walked up and down the room biting

his lip, and thinking. Then he took down the Blue Book from one of the

shelves, and began to turn over the leaves. "Alan Campbell, 152,

Hertford Street, Mayfair." Yes; that was the man he wanted.

At nine o'clock the next morning his servant came in with a cup of

chocolate on a tray, and opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping quite

peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his cheek.

He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or study.



The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as he

opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he had

been lost in some delightful dream. Yet he had not dreamed at all. His

night had been untroubled by any images of pleasure or of pain. But

youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.



He turned round, and, leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his

chocolate. The mellow November sun came streaming into the room. The sky

was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It was almost like

a morning in May.



Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent

blood-stained feet into his brain, and reconstructed themselves there

with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all that he had

suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of loathing for

Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair, came

back to him, and he grew cold with passion. The dead man was still

sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How horrible that was! Such

hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.



He felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would sicken

or grow mad. There were sins whose fascination was more in the memory

than in the doing of them; strange triumphs that gratified the pride

more than the passions, and gave to the intellect a quickened sense of

joy, greater than any joy they brought, or could ever bring, to the

senses. But this was not one of them. It was a thing to be driven out of

the mind, to be drugged with poppies, to be strangled lest it might

strangle one itself.



When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and

then got up hastily, and dressed himself with even more than his usual

care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and

scarf-pin, and changing his rings more than once. He spent a long time

also over breakfast, tasting the various dishes, talking to his valet

about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the

servants at Selby, and going through his correspondence. At some of the

letters he smiled. Three of them bored him. One he read several times

over, and then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face.

"That awful thing, a woman's memory!" as Lord Henry had once said.








