For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of this

book. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never sought

to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no less than nine

large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in different

colours, so that they might suit his various moods and the changing

fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have almost

entirely lost control. The hero, the wonderful young Parisian, in whom

the romantic and the scientific temperaments were so strangely blended,

became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. And, indeed, the

whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written

before he had lived it.



In one point he was more fortunate than the novel's fantastic hero. He

never knew--never, indeed, had any cause to know--that somewhat

grotesque dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces, and still

water, which came upon the young Parisian so early in his life, and was

occasioned by the sudden decay of a beauty that had once, apparently,

been so remarkable. It was with an almost cruel joy--and perhaps in

nearly every joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its

place--that he used to read the latter part of the book, with its really

tragic, if somewhat over-emphasised, account of the sorrow and despair

of one who had himself lost what in others, and in the world, he had

most dearly valued.



For the wonderful beauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward, and many

others besides him, seemed never to leave him. Even those who had heard

the most evil things against him, and from time to time strange rumours

about his mode of life crept through London and became the chatter of

the clubs, could not believe anything to his dishonour when they saw

him. He had always the look of one who had kept himself unspotted from

the world. Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered

the room. There was something in the purity of his face that rebuked

them. His mere presence seemed to recall to them the memory of the

innocence that they had tarnished. They wondered how one so charming and

graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at

once sordid and sensual.



Often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged

absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among those who were

his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep

upstairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left

him now, and stand, with a mirror, in front of the portrait that Basil

Hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and ageing face on

the canvas, and now at the fair young face that laughed back at him from

the polished glass. The very sharpness of the contrast used to quicken

his sense of pleasure. He grew more and more enamoured of his own

beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul. He

would examine with minute care, and sometimes with a monstrous and

terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead,

or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which

were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. He would

place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture,

and smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.



There were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in his own

delicately-scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the little

ill-famed tavern near the Docks, which, under an assumed name, and in

disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of the ruin he

had brought upon his soul, with a pity that was all the more poignant

because it was purely selfish. But moments such as these were rare. That

curiosity about life which Lord Henry had first stirred in him, as they

sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase with

gratification. The more he knew, the more he desired to know. He had mad

hungers that grew more ravenous as he fed them.



Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to society.

Once or twice every month during the winter, and on each Wednesday

evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the world his

beautiful house and have the most celebrated musicians of the day to

charm his guests with the wonders of their art. His little dinners, in

the settling of which Lord Henry always assisted him, were noted as much

for the careful selection and placing of those invited, as for the

exquisite taste shown in the decoration of the table, with its subtle

symphonic arrangements of exotic flowers, and embroidered cloths, and

antique plate of gold and silver. Indeed, there were many, especially

among the very young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw, in Dorian

Gray the true realisation of a type of which they had often dreamed in

Eton or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of the real

culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and perfect

manner of a citizen of the world. To them he seemed to be of the company

of those whom Dante describes as having sought to "make themselves

perfect by the worship of beauty." Like Gautier, he was one for whom

"the visible world existed."



And, certainly, to him Life itself was the first, the greatest, of the

arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation.

Fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment

universal, and Dandyism, which, in its own way, is an attempt to assert

the absolute modernity of beauty, had, of course, their fascination for

him. His mode of dressing, and the particular styles that from time to

time he affected, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of

the Mayfair balls and Pall Mall club windows, who copied him in

everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of

his graceful, though to him only half-serious, fopperies.



For, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost

immediately offered to him on his coming of age, and found, indeed, a

subtle pleasure in the thought that he might really become to the London

of his own day what to imperial Neronian Rome the author of the

"Satyricon" once had been, yet in his inmost heart he desired to be

something more than a mere _arbiter elegantiarum_, to be consulted on

the wearing of a jewel, or the knotting of a necktie, or the conduct of

a cane. He sought to elaborate some new scheme of life that would have

its reasoned philosophy and its ordered principles, and find in the

spiritualising of the senses its highest realisation.



The worship of the senses has often, and with much justice, been

decried, men feeling a natural instinct of terror about passions and

sensations that seem stronger than themselves, and that they are

conscious of sharing with the less highly organised forms of existence.

But it appeared to Dorian Gray that the true nature of the senses had

never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal

merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or to

kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a new

spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the dominant

characteristic. As he looked back upon man moving through History, he

was haunted by a feeling of loss. So much had been surrendered! and to

such little purpose! There had been mad wilful rejections, monstrous

forms of self-torture and self-denial, whose origin was fear, and whose

result was a degradation infinitely more terrible than that fancied

degradation from which, in their ignorance, they had sought to escape,

Nature, in her wonderful irony, driving out the anchorite to feed with

the wild animals of the desert and giving to the hermit the beasts of

the field as his companions.



Yes: there was to be, as Lord Henry had prophesied, a new Hedonism that

was to recreate life, and to save it from that harsh, uncomely

puritanism that is having, in our own day, its curious revival. It was

to have its service of the intellect, certainly; yet, it was never to

accept any theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode

of passionate experience. Its aim, indeed, was to be experience itself,

and not the fruits of experience, sweet or bitter as they might be. Of

the asceticism that deadens the senses, as of the vulgar profligacy that

dulls them, it was to know nothing. But it was to teach man to

concentrate himself upon the moments of a life that is itself but a

moment.



There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either

after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of

death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through

the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality

itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques,

and that lends to Gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one

might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled

with the malady of reverie. Gradually white fingers creep through the

curtains, and they appear to tremble. In black fantastic shapes, dumb

shadows crawl into the corners of the room, and crouch there. Outside,

there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men

going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down

from the hills, and wandering round the silent house, as though it

feared to wake the sleepers, and yet must needs call forth sleep from

her purple cave. Veil after veil of thin dusky gauze is lifted, and by

degrees the forms and colours of things are restored to them, and we

watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. The wan

mirrors get back their mimic life. The flameless tapers stand where we

had left them, and beside them lies the half-cut book that we had been

studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the

letter that we had been afraid to read, or that we had read too often.

Nothing seems to us changed. Out of the unreal shadows of the night

comes back the real life that we had known. We have to resume it where

we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the

necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of

stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids might

open some morning upon a world that had been refashioned anew in the

darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh

shapes and colours, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in

which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate,

in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of

joy having its bitterness, and the memories of pleasure their pain.



It was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to Dorian Gray

to be the true object, or amongst the true objects, of life; and in his

search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and

possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he

would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really

alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and

then, having, as it were, caught their colour and satisfied his

intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that

is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that indeed,

according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition of it.



It was rumoured of him once that he was about to join the Roman Catholic

communion; and certainly the Roman ritual had always a great attraction

for him. The daily sacrifice, more awful really than all the sacrifices

of the antique world, stirred him as much by its superb rejection of

the evidence of the senses as by the primitive simplicity of its

elements and the eternal pathos of the human tragedy that it sought to

symbolise. He loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement, and watch

the priest, in his stiff flowered vestment, slowly and with white hands

moving aside the veil of the tabernacle, or raising aloft the jewelled

lantern-shaped monstrance with that pallid wafer that at times, one

would fain think, is indeed the "_panis cælestis_," the bread of angels,

or, robed in the garments of the Passion of Christ, breaking the Host

into the chalice, and smiting his breast for his sins. The fuming

censers, that the grave boys, in their lace and scarlet, tossed into the

air like great gilt flowers, had their subtle fascination for him. As he

passed out, he used to look with wonder at the black confessionals, and

long to sit in the dim shadow of one of them and listen to men and women

whispering through the worn grating the true story of their lives.



But he never fell into the error of arresting his intellectual

development by any formal acceptance of creed or system, or of

mistaking, for a house in which to live, an inn that is but suitable for

the sojourn of a night, or for a few hours of a night in which there are

no stars and the moon is in travail. Mysticism, with its marvellous

power of making common things strange to us, and the subtle

antinomianism that always seems to accompany it, moved him for a season;

and for a season he inclined to the materialistic doctrines of the

_Darwinismus_ movement in Germany, and found a curious pleasure in

tracing the thoughts and passions of men to some pearly cell in the

brain, or some white nerve in the body, delighting in the conception of

the absolute dependence of the spirit on certain physical conditions,

morbid or healthy, normal or diseased. Yet, as has been said of him

before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance compared

with life itself. He felt keenly conscious of how barren all

intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment.

He knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their spiritual

mysteries to reveal.



And so he would now study perfumes, and the secrets of their

manufacture, distilling heavily-scented oils, and burning odorous gums

from the East. He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not

its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their

true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one

mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one's passions, and in violets

that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the

brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often to

elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several

influences of sweet-smelling roots, and scented pollen-laden flowers, or

aromatic balms, and of dark and fragrant woods, of spikenard that

sickens, of hovenia that makes men mad, and of aloes that are said to be

able to expel melancholy from the soul.


