"Yes," answered Hallward, gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in his

voice--"to see your soul. But only God can do that."



A bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger man. "You

shall see it yourself, to-night!" he cried, seizing a lamp from the

table. "Come: it is your own handiwork. Why shouldn't you look at it?

You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose. Nobody

would believe you. If they did believe you, they would like me all the

better for it. I know the age better than you do, though you will prate

about it so tediously. Come, I tell you. You have chattered enough about

corruption. Now you shall look on it face to face."



There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. He stamped his

foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. He felt a terrible

joy at the thought that someone else was to share his secret, and that

the man who had painted the portrait that was the origin of all his

shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous

memory of what he had done.



"Yes," he continued, coming closer to him, and looking steadfastly into

his stern eyes, "I shall show you my soul. You shall see the thing that

you fancy only God can see."



Hallward started back. "This is blasphemy, Dorian!" he cried. "You must

not say things like that. They are horrible, and they don't mean

anything."



"You think so?" He laughed again.



"I know so. As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your good.

You know I have been always a staunch friend to you."



"Don't touch me. Finish what you have to say."



A twisted flash of pain shot across the painter's face. He paused for a

moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him. After all, what right

had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray? If he had done a tithe of

what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he

straightened himself up, and walked over to the fireplace, and stood

there, looking at the burning logs with their frost-like ashes and their

throbbing cores of flame.



"I am waiting, Basil," said the young man, in a hard, clear voice.



He turned round. "What I have to say is this," he cried. "You must give

me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. If

you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I

shall believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can't you see what I am

going through? My God! don't tell me that you are bad, and corrupt, and

shameful."



Dorian Gray smiled. There was a curl of contempt in his lips. "Come

upstairs, Basil," he said, quietly. "I keep a diary of my life from day

to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. I shall

show it to you if you come with me."



"I shall come with you, Dorian, if you wish it. I see I have missed my

train. That makes no matter. I can go to-morrow. But don't ask me to

read anything to-night. All I want is a plain answer to my question."



"That shall be given to you upstairs. I could not give it here. You will

not have to read long."


He passed out of the room, and began the ascent, Basil Hallward

following close behind. They walked softly, as men do instinctively at

night. The lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and staircase. A

rising wind made some of the windows rattle.



When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on the

floor, and taking out the key turned it in the lock. "You insist on

knowing, Basil?" he asked, in a low voice.



"Yes."



"I am delighted," he answered, smiling. Then he added, somewhat harshly,

"You are the one man in the world who is entitled to know everything

about me. You have had more to do with my life than you think:" and,

taking up the lamp, he opened the door and went in. A cold current of

air passed them, and the light shot up for a moment in a flame of murky

orange. He shuddered. "Shut the door behind you," he whispered, as he

placed the lamp on the table.



Hallward glanced round him, with a puzzled expression. The room looked

as if it had not been lived in for years. A faded Flemish tapestry, a

curtained picture, an old Italian _cassone_, and an almost empty

bookcase--that was all that it seemed to contain, besides a chair and a

table. As Dorian Gray was lighting a half-burned candle that was

standing on the mantel-shelf, he saw that the whole place was covered

with dust, and that the carpet was in holes. A mouse ran scuffling

behind the wainscoting. There was a damp odour of mildew.



"So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw that

curtain back, and you will see mine."



The voice that spoke was cold and cruel. "You are mad, Dorian, or

playing a part," muttered Hallward, frowning.



"You won't? Then I must do it myself," said the young man; and he tore

the curtain from its rod, and flung it on the ground.



An exclamation of horror broke from the painter's lips as he saw in the

dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him. There was

something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing.

Good heavens! it was Dorian Gray's own face that he was looking at! The

horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous

beauty. There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet

on the sensual mouth. The sodden eyes had kept something of the

loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet completely passed

away from chiselled nostrils and from plastic throat. Yes, it was Dorian

himself. But who had done it? He seemed to recognise his own brush-work,

and the frame was his own design. The idea was monstrous, yet he felt

afraid. He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture. In the

left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long letters of bright

vermilion.



It was some foul parody, some infamous, ignoble satire. He had never

done that. Still, it was his own picture. He knew it, and he felt as if

his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish ice. His own

picture! What did it mean? Why had it altered? He turned, and looked at

Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man. His mouth twitched, and his

parched tongue seemed unable to articulate. He passed his hand across

his forehead. It was dank with clammy sweat.



The young man was leaning against the mantel-shelf, watching him with

that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those who are

absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting. There was neither

real sorrow in it nor real joy. There was simply the passion of the

spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes. He had taken

the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it, or pretending to do so.



"What does this mean?" cried Hallward, at last. His own voice sounded

shrill and curious in his ears.



"Years ago, when I was a boy," said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in

his hand, "you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good

looks. One day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who explained to

me the wonder of youth, and you finished the portrait of me that

revealed to me the wonder of beauty. In a mad moment, that, even now, I

don't know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you would

call it a prayer...."



"I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is impossible.

The room is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The paints I used had

some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you the thing is

impossible."



"Ah, what is impossible?" murmured the young man, going over to the

window, and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass.



"You told me you had destroyed it."



"I was wrong. It has destroyed me."



"I don't believe it is my picture."



"Can't you see your ideal in it?" said Dorian, bitterly.



"My ideal, as you call it...."



"As you called it."



"There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. You were to me such an

ideal as I shall never meet again. This is the face of a satyr."



"It is the face of my soul."



"Christ! what a thing I must have worshipped! It has the eyes of a

devil."



"Each of us has Heaven and Hell in him, Basil," cried Dorian, with a

wild gesture of despair.



Hallward turned again to the portrait, and gazed at it. "My God! if it

is true," he exclaimed, "and this is what you have done with your life,

why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you to

be!" He held the light up again to the canvas, and examined it. The

surface seemed to be quite undisturbed, and as he had left it. It was

from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come. Through

some strange quickening of inner life the leprosies of sin were slowly

eating the thing away. The rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was not

so fearful.



His hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor, and

lay there sputtering. He placed his foot on it and put it out. Then he

flung himself into the rickety chair that was standing by the table and

buried his face in his hands.



"Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! what an awful lesson!" There was no

answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window. "Pray,

Dorian, pray," he murmured. "What is it that one was taught to say in

one's boyhood? 'Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash

away our iniquities.' Let us say that together. The prayer of your pride

has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered also.

I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped yourself

too much. We are both punished."



Dorian Gray turned slowly around, and looked at him with tear-dimmed

eyes. "It is too late, Basil," he faltered.



"It is never too late, Dorian. Let us kneel down and try if we cannot

remember a prayer. Isn't there a verse somewhere, 'Though your sins be

as scarlet; yet I will make them as white as snow'?"



"Those words mean nothing to me now."



"Hush! don't say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God!

don't you see that accursed thing leering at us?"



Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable

feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him, as though it had

been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his ear

by those grinning lips. The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred

within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more

than in his whole life he had ever loathed anything. He glanced wildly

around. Something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced

him. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that he had

brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had forgotten

to take away with him. He moved slowly towards it, passing Hallward as

he did so. As soon as he got behind him, he seized it, and turned round.

Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise. He rushed at

him, and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind the ear,

crushing the man's head down on the table, and stabbing again and again.



There was a stifled groan, and the horrible sound of someone choking

with blood. Three times the outstretched arms shot up convulsively,

waving grotesque stiff-fingered hands in the air. He stabbed him twice

more, but the man did not move. Something began to trickle on the floor.

He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down. Then he threw the

knife on the table, and listened.





