She looked at him in wonder, and laughed. He made no answer. She came

across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair. She knelt

down and pressed his hands to her lips. He drew them away, and a shudder

ran through him.



Then he leaped up, and went to the door. "Yes," he cried, "you have

killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don't even stir

my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because you

were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you

realised the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the

shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You are shallow and stupid.

My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You are

nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think of

you. I will never mention your name. You don't know what you were to me,

once. Why, once.... Oh, I can't bear to think of it! I wish I had never

laid eyes upon you! You have spoiled the romance of my life. How little

you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your art you

are nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. The

world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name. What

are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty face."



The girl grew white, and trembled. She clenched her hands together, and

her voice seemed to catch in her throat. "You are not serious, Dorian?"

she murmured. "You are acting."



"Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well," he answered bitterly.



She rose from her knees, and, with a piteous expression of pain in her

face, came across the room to him. She put her hand upon his arm, and

looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. "Don't touch me!" he cried.



A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet, and lay

there like a trampled flower. "Dorian, Dorian, don't leave me!" she

whispered. "I am so sorry I didn't act well. I was thinking of you all

the time. But I will try--indeed, I will try. It came so suddenly across

me, my love for you. I think I should never have known it if you had not

kissed me--if we had not kissed each other. Kiss me again, my love.

Don't go away from me. I couldn't bear it. Oh! don't go away from me. My

brother.... No; never mind. He didn't mean it. He was in jest.... But

you, oh! can't you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard, and try

to improve. Don't be cruel to me because I love you better than anything

in the world. After all, it is only once that I have not pleased you.

But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown myself more of an

artist. It was foolish of me; and yet I couldn't help it. Oh, don't

leave me, don't leave me." A fit of passionate sobbing choked her. She

crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian Gray, with his

beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled lips curled in

exquisite disdain. There is always something ridiculous about the

emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl Vane seemed to him

to be absurdly melodramatic. Her tears and sobs annoyed him.



"I am going," he said at last, in his calm, clear voice. "I don't wish

to be unkind, but I can't see you again. You have disappointed me."



She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer. Her little

hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him. He

turned on his heel, and left the room. In a few moments he was out of

the theatre.



Where he went to he hardly knew. He remembered wandering through

dimly-lit streets, past gaunt black-shadowed archways and evil-looking

houses. Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after

him. Drunkards had reeled by cursing, and chattering to themselves like

monstrous apes. He had seen grotesque children huddled upon doorsteps,

and heard shrieks and oaths from gloomy courts.



As the dawn was just breaking he found himself close to Covent Garden.

The darkness lifted, and, flushed with faint fires, the sky hollowed

itself into a perfect pearl. Huge carts filled with nodding lilies

rumbled slowly down the polished empty street. The air was heavy with

the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an

anodyne for his pain. He followed into the market, and watched the men

unloading their waggons. A white-smocked carter offered him some

cherries. He thanked him, and wondered why he refused to accept any

money for them, and began to eat them listlessly. They had been plucked

at midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them. A long

line of boys carrying crates of striped tulips, and of yellow and red

roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge

jade-green piles of vegetables. Under the portico, with its grey

sun-bleached pillars, loitered a troop of draggled bareheaded girls,

waiting for the auction to be over. Others crowded round the swinging

doors of the coffee-house in the Piazza. The heavy cart-horses slipped

and stamped upon the rough stones, shaking their bells and trappings.

Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks. Iris-necked,

and pink-footed, the pigeons ran about picking up seeds.



After a little while, he hailed a hansom, and drove home. For a few

moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the silent

Square with its blank, close-shuttered windows, and its staring blinds.

The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like

silver against it. From some chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke was

rising. It curled, a violet riband, through the nacre-coloured air.



In the huge gilt Venetian lantern, spoil of some Doge's barge, that hung

from the ceiling of the great oak-panelled hall of entrance, lights were

still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals of flame they

seemed, rimmed with white fire. He turned them out, and, having thrown

his hat and cape on the table, passed through the library towards the

door of his bedroom, a large octagonal chamber on the ground floor that,

in his new-born feeling for luxury, he had just had decorated for

himself, and hung with some curious Renaissance tapestries that had been

discovered stored in a disused attic at Selby Royal. As he was turning

the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the portrait Basil Hallward

had painted of him. He started back as if in surprise. Then he went on

into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled. After he had taken the

buttonhole out of his coat, he seemed to hesitate. Finally he came back,

went over to the picture, and examined it. In the dim arrested light

that struggled through the cream-coloured silk blinds, the face appeared

to him to be a little changed. The expression looked different. One

would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth. It was

certainly strange.



He turned round, and, walking to the window, drew up the blind. The

bright dawn flooded the room, and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky

corners, where they lay shuddering. But the strange expression that he

had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger there, to be

more intensified even. The quivering, ardent sunlight showed him the

lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking

into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing.



He winced, and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory

Cupids, one of Lord Henry's many presents to him, glanced hurriedly into

its polished depths. No line like that warped his red lips. What did it

mean?



He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it

again. There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual

painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had

altered. It was not a mere fancy of his own. The thing was horribly

apparent.



He threw himself into a chair, and began to think. Suddenly there

flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward's studio the

day the picture had been finished. Yes, he remembered it perfectly. He

had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the

portrait grow old; that his own beauty might be untarnished, and the

face on the canvas bear the burden of his passions and his sins; that

the painted image might be seared with the lines of suffering and

thought, and that he might keep all the delicate bloom and loveliness of

his then just conscious boyhood. Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?

Such things were impossible. It seemed monstrous even to think of them.

And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in

the mouth.



Cruelty! Had he been cruel? It was the girl's fault, not his. He had

dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he

had thought her great. Then she had disappointed him. She had been

shallow and unworthy. And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over

him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little child.

He remembered with what callousness he had watched her. Why had he been

made like that? Why had such a soul been given to him? But he had

suffered also. During the three terrible hours that the play had lasted,

he had lived centuries of pain, æon upon æon of torture. His life was

well worth hers. She had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her

for an age. Besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men.

They lived on their emotions. They only thought of their emotions. When

they took lovers, it was merely to have someone with whom they could

have scenes. Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord Henry knew what

women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane? She was nothing to

him now.



But the picture? What was he to say of that? It held the secret of his

life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own beauty.

Would it teach him to loathe his own soul? Would he ever look at it

again?



No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses. The

horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it. Suddenly

there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men

mad. The picture had not changed. It was folly to think so.



Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel

smile. Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight. Its blue eyes met

his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted

image of himself, came over him. It had altered already, and would alter

more. Its gold would wither into grey. Its red and white roses would

die. For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its

fairness. But he would not sin. The picture, changed or unchanged, would

be to him the visible emblem of conscience. He would resist temptation.

He would not see Lord Henry any more--would not, at any rate, listen to

those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward's garden had

first stirred within him the passion for impossible things. He would go

back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again.

Yes, it was his duty to do so. She must have suffered more than he had.

Poor child! He had been selfish and cruel to her. The fascination that

she had exercised over him would return. They would be happy together.

His life with her would be beautiful and pure.



He got up from his chair, and drew a large screen right in front of the

portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. "How horrible!" he murmured to

himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. When he

stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath. The fresh morning

air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. He thought only of

Sibyl. A faint echo of his love came back to him. He repeated her name

over and over again. The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched

garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her.








