Poor Sibyl! what a romance it had all been! She had often mimicked death

on the stage. Then Death himself had touched her, and taken her with

him. How had she played that dreadful last scene? Had she cursed him, as

she died? No; she had died for love of him, and love would always be a

sacrament to him now. She had atoned for everything, by the sacrifice

she had made of her life. He would not think any more of what she had

made him go through, on that horrible night at the theatre. When he

thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the

world's stage to show the supreme reality of Love. A wonderful tragic

figure? Tears came to his eyes as he remembered her childlike look, and

winsome fanciful ways, and shy tremulous grace. He brushed them away

hastily, and looked again at the picture.



He felt that the time had really come for making his choice. Or had his

choice already been made? Yes, life had decided that for him--life, and

his own infinite curiosity about life. Eternal youth, infinite passion,

pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins--he was to have

all these things. The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame: that

was all.



A feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that

was in store for the fair face on the canvas. Once, in boyish mockery of

Narcissus, he had kissed, or feigned to kiss, those painted lips that

now smiled so cruelly at him. Morning after morning he had sat before

the portrait, wondering at its beauty, almost enamoured of it, as it

seemed to him at times. Was it to alter now with every mood to which he

yielded? Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden

away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so

often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair? The pity

of it! the pity of it!



For a moment he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that

existed between him and the picture might cease. It had changed in

answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain

unchanged. And, yet, who, that knew anything about Life, would surrender

the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance

might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?

Besides, was it really under his control? Had it indeed been prayer that

had produced the substitution? Might there not be some curious

scientific reason for it all? If thought could exercise its influence

upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon

dead and inorganic things? Nay, without thought or conscious desire,

might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods

and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love of strange affinity?

But the reason was of no importance. He would never again tempt by a

prayer any terrible power. If the picture was to alter, it was to alter.

That was all. Why inquire too closely into it?



For there would be a real pleasure in watching it. He would be able to

follow his mind into its secret places. This portrait would be to him

the most magical of mirrors. As it had revealed to him his own body, so

it would reveal to him his own soul. And when winter came upon it, he

would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer.

When the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of

chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood. Not one

blossom of his loveliness would ever fade. Not one pulse of his life

would ever weaken. Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and

fleet, and joyous. What did it matter what happened to the coloured

image on the canvas? He would be safe. That was everything.



He drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture,

smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was

already waiting for him. An hour later he was at the Opera, and Lord

Henry was leaning over his chair.


As he was sitting at breakfast next morning, Basil Hallward was shown

into the room.



"I am so glad I have found you, Dorian," he said, gravely. "I called

last night, and they told me you were at the Opera. Of course I knew

that was impossible. But I wish you had left word where you had really

gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might

be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me when

you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late edition of

_The Globe_, that I picked up at the club. I came here at once, and was

miserable at not finding you. I can't tell you how heartbroken I am

about the whole thing. I know what you must suffer. But where were you?

Did you go down and see the girl's mother? For a moment I thought of

following you there. They gave the address in the paper. Somewhere in

the Euston Road, isn't it? But I was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow

that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a state she must be in! And

her only child, too! What did she say about it all?"



"My dear Basil, how do I know?" murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some

pale-yellow wine from a delicate gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass,

and looking dreadfully bored. "I was at the Opera. You should have come

on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry's sister, for the first time. We

were in her box. She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely.

Don't talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn't talk about a thing, it

has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives

reality to things. I may mention that she was not the woman's only

child. There is a son, a charming fellow, I believe. But he is not on

the stage. He is a sailor, or something. And now, tell me about yourself

and what you are painting."



"You went to the Opera?" said Hallward, speaking very slowly, and with a

strained touch of pain in his voice. "You went to the Opera while Sibyl

Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other

women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl you

loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there are

horrors in store for that little white body of hers!"



"Stop, Basil! I won't hear it!" cried Dorian, leaping to his feet. "You

must not tell me about things. What is done is done. What is past is

past."



"You call yesterday the past?"



"What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only shallow

people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A man who is master

of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure. I

don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use them, to

enjoy them, and to dominate them."



"Dorian, this is horrible! Something has changed you completely. You

look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come

down to my studio to sit for his picture. But you were simple, natural,

and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the whole

world. Now, I don't know what has come over you. You talk as if you had

no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry's influence. I see that."



The lad flushed up, and, going to the window, looked out for a few

moments on the green, flickering, sun-lashed garden. "I owe a great deal

to Harry, Basil," he said, at last--"more than I owe to you. You only

taught me to be vain."



"Well, I am punished for that, Dorian--or shall be some day."



"I don't know what you mean, Basil," he exclaimed, turning round. "I

don't know what you want. What do you want?"



"I want the Dorian Gray I used to paint," said the artist, sadly.



"Basil," said the lad, going over to him, and putting his hand on his

shoulder, "you have come too late. Yesterday when I heard that Sibyl

Vane had killed herself----"


