"So I have murdered Sibyl Vane," said Dorian Gray, half to

himself--"murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with

a knife. Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing

just as happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine with you, and

then go on to the Opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards. How

extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book,

Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has

happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears. Here

is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life.

Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed

to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we

call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh, Harry, how I

loved her once! It seems years ago to me now. She was everything to me.

Then came that dreadful night--was it really only last night?--when she

played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She explained it all to me.

It was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a bit. I thought her

shallow. Suddenly something happened that made me afraid. I can't tell

you what it was, but it was terrible. I said I would go back to her. I

felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My God! my God! Harry, what

shall I do? You don't know the danger I am in, and there is nothing to

keep me straight. She would have done that for me. She had no right to

kill herself. It was selfish of her."



"My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, taking a cigarette from his case,

and producing a gold-latten matchbox, "the only way a woman can ever

reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible

interest in life. If you had married this girl you would have been

wretched. Of course you would have treated her kindly. One can always be

kind to people about whom one cares nothing. But she would have soon

found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. And when a woman

finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy,

or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman's husband has to pay

for. I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been

abject, which, of course, I would not have allowed, but I assure you

that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure."



"I suppose it would," muttered the lad, walking up and down the room,

and looking horribly pale. "But I thought it was my duty. It is not my

fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.

I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good

resolutions--that they are always made too late. Mine certainly were."



"Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific

laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is absolutely _nil_.

They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions

that have a certain charm for the weak. That is all that can be said for

them. They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no

account."



"Harry," cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him,

"why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to? I don't

think I am heartless. Do you?"



"You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be

entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian," answered Lord Henry, with

his sweet, melancholy smile.



The lad frowned. "I don't like that explanation, Harry," he rejoined,

"but I am glad you don't think I am heartless. I am nothing of the kind.

I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has happened

does not affect me as it should. It seems to me to be simply like a

wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible beauty of

a Greek tragedy, a tragedy in which I took a great part, but by which I

have not been wounded."



"It is an interesting question," said Lord Henry, who found an exquisite

pleasure in playing on the lad's unconscious egotism--"an extremely

interesting question. I fancy that the true explanation is this. It

often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an

inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their

absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of

style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an

impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. Sometimes,

however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses

our lives. If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply

appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are no

longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are

both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls

us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened? Someone

has killed herself for love of you. I wish that I had ever had such an

experience. It would have made me in love with love for the rest of my

life. The people who have adored me--there have not been very many, but

there have been some--have always insisted on living on, long after I

had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have become

stout and tedious, and when I meet them they go in at once for

reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is!

And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb

the colour of life, but one should never remember its details. Details

are always vulgar."



"I must sow poppies in my garden," sighed Dorian.



"There is no necessity," rejoined his companion. "Life has always

poppies in her hands. Of course, now and then things linger. I once wore

nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic

mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately, however, it did

die. I forget what killed it. I think it was her proposing to sacrifice

the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one

with the terror of eternity. Well--would you believe it?--a week ago, at

Lady Hampshire's, I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in

question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and

digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance

in a bed of asphodel. She dragged it out again, and assured me that I

had spoiled her life. I am bound to state that she ate an enormous

dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety. But what a lack of taste she

showed! The one charm of the past is that it is the past. But women

never know when the curtain has fallen. They always want a sixth act,

and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over they propose to

continue it. If they were allowed their own way, every comedy would have

a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce. They are

charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. You are more

fortunate than I am. I assure you, Dorian, that not one of the women I

have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you. Ordinary

women always console themselves. Some of them do it by going in for

sentimental colours. Never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her

age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons. It

always means that they have a history. Others find a great consolation

in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands. They

flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face, as if it were the most

fascinating of sins. Religion consoles some. Its mysteries have all the

charm of a flirtation, a woman once told me; and I can quite understand

it. Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a

sinner. Conscience makes egotists of us all. Yes; there is really no end

to the consolations that women find in modern life. Indeed, I have not

mentioned the most important one."



"What is that, Harry?" said the lad, listlessly.



"Oh, the obvious consolation. Taking someone else's admirer when one

loses one's own. In good society that always whitewashes a woman. But

really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the

women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her

death. I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen. They

make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with, such as

romance, passion, and love."



"I was terribly cruel to her. You forget that."



"I am afraid that women appreciate cruelty, downright cruelty, more than

anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts. We have

emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all

the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you were splendid. I have

never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how

delightful you looked. And, after all, you said something to me the day

before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful,

but that I see now was absolutely true, and it holds the key to

everything."



"What was that, Harry?"



"You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of

romance--that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia the other; that

if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen."



"She will never come to life again now," muttered the lad, burying his

face in his hands.



"No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part. But you

must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a

strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene

from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur. The girl never really lived,

and so she has never really died. To you at least she was always a

dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare's plays and left them

lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare's music

sounded richer and more full of joy. The moment she touched actual life,

she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn for

Ophelia, if you like. Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was

strangled. Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio

died. But don't waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real than

they are."



There was a silence. The evening darkened in the room. Noiselessly, and

with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden. The colours

faded wearily out of things.



After some time Dorian Gray looked up. "You have explained me to myself,

Harry," he murmured, with something of a sigh of relief. "I felt all

that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I could not

express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will not talk again

of what has happened. It has been a marvellous experience. That is all.

I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous."



"Life has everything in store for you, Dorian. There is nothing that

you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do."



"But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled? What

then?"



"Ah, then," said Lord Henry, rising to go--"then, my dear Dorian, you

would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they are brought to

you. No, you must keep your good looks. We live in an age that reads too

much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We cannot

spare you. And now you had better dress, and drive down to the club. We

are rather late, as it is."



"I think I shall join you at the Opera, Harry. I feel too tired to eat

anything. What is the number of your sister's box?"



"Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see her name

on the door. But I am sorry you won't come and dine."



"I don't feel up to it," said Dorian, listlessly. "But I am awfully

obliged to you for all that you have said to me. You are certainly my

best friend. No one has ever understood me as you have."



"We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian," answered Lord

Henry, shaking him by the hand. "Good-bye. I shall see you before

nine-thirty, I hope. Remember, Patti is singing."



As he closed the door behind him, Dorian Gray touched the bell, and in a

few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down. He

waited impatiently for him to go. The man seemed to take an interminable

time over everything.



As soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen, and drew it back. No;

there was no further change in the picture. It had received the news of

Sibyl Vane's death before he had known of it himself. It was conscious

of the events of life as they occurred. The vicious cruelty that marred

the fine lines of the mouth had, no doubt, appeared at the very moment

that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was. Or was it

indifferent to results? Did it merely take cognizance of what passed

within the soul? He wondered, and hoped that some day he would see the

change taking place before his very eyes, shuddering as he hoped it.


