One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious

arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry's house in Mayfair. It

was, in its way, a very charming room, with its high-panelled

wainscoting of olive-stained oak, its cream-coloured frieze and ceiling

of raised plaster-work, and its brickdust felt carpet strewn with silk

long-fringed Persian rugs. On a tiny satinwood table stood a statuette

by Clodion, and beside it lay a copy of "_Les Cent Nouvelles_," bound

for Margaret of Valois by Clovis Eve, and powdered with the gilt daisies

that Queen had selected for her device. Some large blue china jars and

parrot-tulips were ranged on the mantel-shelf, and through the small

leaded panels of the window streamed the apricot-coloured light of a

summer day in London.



Lord Henry had not yet come in. He was always late on principle, his

principle being that punctuality is the thief of time. So the lad was

looking rather sulky, as with listless fingers he turned over the pages

of an elaborately-illustrated edition of "_Manon Lescaut_" that he had

found in one of the bookcases. The formal monotonous ticking of the

Louis Quatorze clock annoyed him. Once or twice he thought of going

away.



At last he heard a step outside, and the door opened. "How late you are,

Harry!" he murmured.



"I am afraid it is not Harry, Mr. Gray," answered a shrill voice.



He glanced quickly round, and rose to his feet. "I beg your pardon. I

thought----"



"You thought it was my husband. It is only his wife. You must let me

introduce myself. I know you quite well by your photographs. I think my

husband has got seventeen of them."



"Not seventeen, Lady Henry?"



"Well, eighteen, then. And I saw you with him the other night at the

Opera." She laughed nervously as she spoke, and watched him with her

vague forget-me-not eyes. She was a curious woman, whose dresses always

looked as if they had been designed in a rage and put on in a tempest.

She was usually in love with somebody, and, as her passion was never

returned, she had kept all her illusions. She tried to look picturesque,

but only succeeded in being untidy. Her name was Victoria, and she had a

perfect mania for going to church.



"That was at 'Lohengrin,' Lady Henry, I think?"



"Yes; it was at dear 'Lohengrin.' I like Wagner's music better than

anybody's. It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other

people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage: don't you think

so, Mr. Gray?"



The same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her

fingers began to play with a long tortoise-shell paper-knife.



Dorian smiled, and shook his head: "I am afraid I don't think so, Lady

Henry. I never talk during music, at least, during good music. If one

hears bad music, it is one's duty to drown it in conversation."



"Ah! that is one of Harry's views, isn't it, Mr. Gray? I always hear

Harry's views from his friends. It is the only way I get to know of

them. But you must not think I don't like good music. I adore it, but I

am afraid of it. It makes me too romantic. I have simply worshipped

pianists--two at a time, sometimes, Harry tells me. I don't know what it

is about them. Perhaps it is that they are foreigners. They all are,

ain't they? Even those that are born in England become foreigners after

a time, don't they? It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to

art. Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn't it? You have never been to any

of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray? You must come. I can't afford

orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners. They make one's rooms

look so picturesque. But here is Harry!--Harry, I came in to look for

you, to ask you something--I forget what it was--and I found Mr. Gray

here. We have had such a pleasant chat about music. We have quite the

same ideas. No; I think our ideas are quite different. But he has been

most pleasant. I am so glad I've seen him."



"I am charmed, my love, quite charmed," said Lord Henry, elevating his

dark crescent-shaped eyebrows and looking at them both with an amused

smile. "So sorry I am late, Dorian. I went to look after a piece of old

brocade in Wardour Street, and had to bargain for hours for it. Nowadays

people know the price of everything, and the value of nothing."



"I am afraid I must be going," exclaimed Lady Henry, breaking an awkward

silence with her silly sudden laugh. "I have promised to drive with the

Duchess. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Good-bye, Harry. You are dining out, I

suppose? So am I. Perhaps I shall see you at Lady Thornbury's."



"I daresay, my dear," said Lord Henry, shutting the door behind her, as,

looking like a bird of paradise that had been out all night in the rain,

she flitted out of the room, leaving a faint odour of frangipanni. Then

he lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on the sofa.



"Never marry a woman with straw-coloured hair, Dorian," he said, after a

few puffs.



"Why, Harry?"



"Because they are so sentimental."



"But I like sentimental people."



"Never marry at all, Dorian. Men marry because they are tired; women,

because they are curious; both are disappointed."



"I don't think I am likely to marry, Henry. I am too much in love. That

is one of your aphorisms. I am putting it into practice, as I do

everything that you say."



"Who are you in love with?" asked Lord Henry, after a pause.



"With an actress," said Dorian Gray, blushing.



Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. "That is a rather commonplace

_début_."



"You would not say so if you saw her, Harry."



"Who is she?"



"Her name is Sibyl Vane."



"Never heard of her."



"No one has. People will some day, however. She is a genius."



"My dear boy, no woman is a genius. Women are a decorative sex. They

never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. Women represent

the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of

mind over morals."



"Harry, how can you?"



"My dear Dorian, it is quite true. I am analysing women at the present,

so I ought to know. The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was.

I find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain

and the coloured. The plain women are very useful. If you want to gain a

reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to

supper. The other women are very charming. They commit one mistake,

however. They paint in order to try and look young. Our grandmothers

painted in order to try and talk brilliantly. _Rouge_ and _esprit_ used

to go together. That is all over now. As long as a woman can look ten

years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. As for

conversation, there are only five women in London worth talking to, and

two of these can't be admitted into decent society. However, tell me

about your genius. How long have you known her?"



"Ah! Harry, your views terrify me."



"Never mind that. How long have you known her?"



"About three weeks."



"And where did you come across her?"



"I will tell you, Harry; but you mustn't be unsympathetic about it.

After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you. You filled

me with a wild desire to know everything about life. For days after I

met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I lounged in the

Park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at every one who

passed me, and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort of lives they

led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me with terror. There was

an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations.... Well,

one evening about seven o'clock, I determined to go out in search of

some adventure. I felt that this grey, monstrous London of ours, with

its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as you

once phrased it, must have something in store for me. I fancied a

thousand things. The mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I

remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we

first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret

of life. I don't know what I expected, but I went out and wandered

eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black,

grassless squares. About half-past eight I passed by an absurd little

theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. A hideous

Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was

standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. He had greasy ringlets,

and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. 'Have a

box, my Lord?' he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an

air of gorgeous servility. There was something about him, Harry, that

amused me. He was such a monster. You will laugh at me, I know, but I

really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the

present day I can't make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn't--my dear

Harry, if I hadn't, I should have missed the greatest romance of my

life. I see you are laughing. It is horrid of you!"



"I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you. But you

should not say the greatest romance of your life. You should say the

first romance of your life. You will always be loved, and you will

always be in love with love. A _grande passion_ is the privilege of

people who have nothing to do. That is the one use of the idle classes

of a country. Don't be afraid. There are exquisite things in store for

you. This is merely the beginning."



"Do you think my nature so shallow?" cried Dorian Gray, angrily.



"No; I think your nature so deep."



"How do you mean?"



"My dear boy, the people who love only once in their lives are really

the shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I

call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination.

Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of

the intellect--simply a confession of failures. Faithfulness! I must

analyse it some day. The passion for property is in it. There are many

things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might

pick them up. But I don't want to interrupt you. Go on with your story."



"Well, I found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a

vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face. I looked out from behind the

curtain, and surveyed the house. It was a tawdry affair, all Cupids and

cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding cake. The gallery and pit were

fairy full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and there

was hardly a person in what I suppose they called the dress-circle.

Women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there was a terrible

consumption of nuts going on."



"It must have been just like the palmy days of the British Drama."



"Just like, I should fancy, and very depressing. I began to wonder what

on earth I should do, when I caught sight of the play-bill. What do you

think the play was, Harry?"



"I should think 'The Idiot Boy, or Dumb but Innocent.' Our fathers used

to like that sort of piece, I believe. The longer I live, Dorian, the

more keenly I feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is not

good enough for us. In art, as in politics, _les grandpères ont toujours

tort_."



"This play was good enough for us, Harry. It was 'Romeo and Juliet.' I

must admit that I was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing Shakespeare

done in such a wretched hole of a place. Still, I felt interested, in a

sort of way. At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act. There

was a dreadful orchestra, presided over by a young Hebrew who sat at a

cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene was

drawn up, and the play began. Romeo was a stout elderly gentleman, with

corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a beer-barrel.

Mercutio was almost as bad. He was played by the low-comedian, who had

introduced gags of his own and was on most friendly terms with the pit.

They were both as grotesque as the scenery, and that looked as if it had

come out of a country-booth. But Juliet! Harry, imagine a girl, hardly

seventeen years of age, with a little flower-like face, a small Greek

head with plaited coils of dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells

of passion, lips that were like the petals of a rose. She was the

loveliest thing I had ever seen in my life. You said to me once that

pathos left you unmoved, but that beauty, mere beauty, could fill your

eyes with tears. I tell you, Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the

mist of tears that came across me. And her voice--I never heard such a

voice. It was very low at first, with deep mellow notes, that seemed to

fall singly upon one's ear. Then it became a little louder, and sounded

like a flute or a distant hautbois. In the garden-scene it had all the

tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are

singing. There were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of

violins. You know how a voice can stir one. Your voice and the voice of

Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my

eyes, I hear them, and each of them says something different. I don't

know which to follow. Why should I not love her? Harry, I do love her.

She is everything to me in life. Night after night I go to see her play.

One evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen. I have

seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from

her lover's lips. I have watched her wandering through the forest of

Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap. She

has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and given

him rue to wear, and bitter herbs to taste of. She has been innocent,

and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reed-like throat. I

have seen her in every age and in every costume. Ordinary women never

appeal to one's imagination. They are limited to their century. No

glamour ever transfigures them. One knows their minds as easily as one

knows their bonnets. One can always find them. There is no mystery in

any of them. They ride in the Park in the morning, and chatter at

tea-parties in the afternoon. They have their stereotyped smile, and

their fashionable manner. They are quite obvious. But an actress! How

different an actress is! Harry! why didn't you tell me that the only

thing worth loving is an actress?"



"Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian."


