"I am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an American

dry-goods store," said Sir Thomas Burdon, looking supercilious.



"My uncle has already suggested pork-packing, Sir Thomas."



"Dry-goods! What are American dry-goods?" asked the Duchess, raising her

large hands in wonder, and accentuating the verb.



"American novels," answered Lord Henry, helping himself to some quail.



The Duchess looked puzzled.



"Don't mind him, my dear," whispered Lady Agatha. "He never means

anything that he says."



"When America was discovered," said the Radical member, and he began to

give some wearisome facts. Like all people who try to exhaust a subject,

he exhausted his listeners. The Duchess sighed, and exercised her

privilege of interruption. "I wish to goodness it never had been

discovered at all!" she exclaimed. "Really, our girls have no chance

nowadays. It is most unfair."



"Perhaps, after all, America never has been discovered," said Mr.

Erskine. "I myself would say that it had merely been detected."



"Oh! but I have seen specimens of the inhabitants," answered the

Duchess, vaguely. "I must confess that most of them are extremely

pretty. And they dress well, too. They get all their dresses in Paris. I

wish I could afford to do the same."



"They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris," chuckled Sir

Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour's cast-off clothes.



"Really! And where do bad Americans go to when they die?" inquired the

Duchess.



"They go to America," murmured Lord Henry.



Sir Thomas frowned. "I am afraid that your nephew is prejudiced against

that great country," he said to Lady Agatha. "I have travelled all over

it, in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are

extremely civil. I assure you that it is an education to visit it."



"But must we really see Chicago in order to be educated?" asked Mr.

Erskine, plaintively. "I don't feel up to the journey."



Sir Thomas waved his hand. "Mr. Erskine of Treadley has the world on his

shelves. We practical men like to see things, not to read about them.

The Americans are an extremely interesting people. They are absolutely

reasonable. I think that is their distinguishing characteristic. Yes,

Mr. Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people. I assure you there is no

nonsense about the Americans."



"How dreadful!" cried Lord Henry. "I can stand brute force, but brute

reason is quite unbearable. There is something unfair about its use. It

is hitting below the intellect."



"I do not understand you," said Sir Thomas, growing rather red.



"I do, Lord Henry," murmured Mr. Erskine, with a smile.



"Paradoxes are all very well in their way...." rejoined the Baronet.



"Was that a paradox?" asked Mr. Erskine. "I did not think so. Perhaps it

was. Well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth. To test Reality we

must see it on the tight-rope. When the Verities become acrobats we can

judge them."



"Dear me!" said Lady Agatha, "how you men argue! I am sure I never can

make out what you are talking about. Oh! Harry, I am quite vexed with

you. Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the

East End? I assure you he would be quite invaluable. They would love his

playing."



"I want him to play to me," cried Lord Henry, smiling, and he looked

down the table and caught a bright answering glance.



"But they are so unhappy in Whitechapel," continued Lady Agatha.



"I can sympathise with everything, except suffering," said Lord Henry,

shrugging his shoulders. "I cannot sympathise with that. It is too ugly,

too horrible, too distressing. There is something terribly morbid in the

modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathise with the colour, the

beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life's sores the better."



"Still, the East End is a very important problem," remarked Sir Thomas,

with a grave shake of the head.



"Quite so," answered the young lord. "It is the problem of slavery, and

we try to solve it by amusing the slaves."



The politician looked at him keenly. "What change do you propose, then?"

he asked.



Lord Henry laughed. "I don't desire to change anything in England except

the weather," he answered. "I am quite content with philosophic

contemplation. But, as the nineteenth century has gone bankrupt through

an over-expenditure of sympathy, I would suggest that we should appeal

to Science to put us straight. The advantage of the emotions is that

they lead us astray, and the advantage of Science is that it is not

emotional."



"But we have such grave responsibilities," ventured Mrs. Vandeleur,

timidly.



"Terribly grave," echoed Lady Agatha.



Lord Henry looked over at Mr. Erskine. "Humanity takes itself too

seriously. It is the world's original sin. If the caveman had known how

to laugh, History would have been different."



"You are really very comforting," warbled the Duchess. "I have always

felt rather guilty when I came to see your dear aunt, for I take no

interest at all in the East End. For the future I shall be able to look

her in the face without a blush."



"A blush is very becoming, Duchess," remarked Lord Henry.



"Only when one is young," she answered. "When an old woman like myself

blushes, it is a very bad sign. Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell me

how to become young again."



He thought for a moment. "Can you remember any great error that you

committed in your early days, Duchess?" he asked, looking at her across

the table.



"A great many, I fear," she cried.



"Then commit them over again," he said, gravely. "To get back one's

youth, one has merely to repeat one's follies."



"A delightful theory!" she exclaimed. "I must put it into practice."



"A dangerous theory!" came from Sir Thomas's tight lips. Lady Agatha

shook her head, but could not help being amused. Mr. Erskine listened.



"Yes," he continued, "that is one of the great secrets of life. Nowadays

most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it

is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes."



A laugh ran round the table.



He played with the idea, and grew wilful; tossed it into the air and

transformed it; let it escape and recaptured it; made it iridescent with

fancy, and winged it with paradox. The praise of folly, as he went on,

soared into a philosophy, and Philosophy herself became young, and

catching the mad music of Pleasure, wearing, one might fancy, her

wine-stained robe and wreath of ivy, danced like a Bacchante over the

hills of life, and mocked the slow Silenus for being sober. Facts fled

before her like frightened forest things. Her white feet trod the huge

press at which wise Omar sits, till the seething grape-juice rose round

her bare limbs in waves of purple bubbles, or crawled in red foam over

the vat's black, dripping, sloping sides. It was an extraordinary

improvisation. He felt that the eyes of Dorian Gray were fixed on him,

and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose

temperament he wished to fascinate, seemed to give his wit keenness, and

to lend colour to his imagination. He was brilliant, fantastic,

irresponsible. He charmed his listeners out of themselves, and they

followed his pipe laughing. Dorian Gray never took his gaze off him, but

sat like one under a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips, and

wonder growing grave in his darkening eyes.



At last, liveried in the costume of the age, Reality entered the room in

the shape of a servant to tell the Duchess that her carriage was

waiting. She wrung her hands in mock despair. "How annoying!" she cried.

"I must go. I have to call for my husband at the club, to take him to

some absurd meeting at Willis's Rooms, where he is going to be in the

chair. If I am late, he is sure to be furious, and I couldn't have a

scene in this bonnet. It is far too fragile. A harsh word would ruin it.

No, I must go, dear Agatha. Good-bye, Lord Henry, you are quite

delightful, and dreadfully demoralising. I am sure I don't know what to

say about your views. You must come and dine with us some night.

Tuesday? Are you disengaged Tuesday?"



"For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess," said Lord Henry, with a

bow.



"Ah! that is very nice, and very wrong of you," she cried; "so mind you

come;" and she swept out of the room, followed by Lady Agatha and the

other ladies.



When Lord Henry had sat down again, Mr. Erskine moved round, and taking

a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm.



"You talk books away," he said; "why don't you write one?"



"I am too fond of reading books to care to write them, Mr. Erskine. I

should like to write a novel certainly; a novel that would be as lovely

as a Persian carpet, and as unreal. But there is no literary public in

England for anything except newspapers, primers, and encyclopædias. Of

all people in the world the English have the least sense of the beauty

of literature."



"I fear you are right," answered Mr. Erskine. "I myself used to have

literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago. And now, my dear young

friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may I ask if you really

meant all that you said to us at lunch?"



"I quite forget what I said," smiled Lord Henry. "Was it all very bad?"



"Very bad indeed. In fact I consider you extremely dangerous, and if

anything happens to our good Duchess we shall all look on you as being

primarily responsible. But I should like to talk to you about life. The

generation into which I was born was tedious. Some day, when you are

tired of London, come down to Treadley, and expound to me your

philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate

enough to possess."



"I shall be charmed. A visit to Treadley would be a great privilege. It

has a perfect host, and a perfect library."



"You will complete it," answered the old gentleman, with a courteous

bow. "And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt. I am due at

the Athenæum. It is the hour when we sleep there."



"All of you, Mr. Erskine?"



"Forty of us, in forty arm-chairs. We are practising for an English

Academy of Letters."



Lord Henry laughed, and rose. "I am going to the Park," he cried.



As he was passing out of the door Dorian Gray touched him on the arm.

"Let me come with you," he murmured.



"But I thought you had promised Basil Hallward to go and see him,"

answered Lord Henry.



"I would sooner come with you; yes, I feel I must come with you. Do let

me. And you will promise to talk to me all the time? No one talks so

wonderfully as you do."



"Ah! I have talked quite enough for to-day," said Lord Henry, smiling.

"All I want now is to look at life. You may come and look at it with me,

if you care to."


