"Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces."



"Don't run down dyed hair and painted faces. There is an extraordinary

charm in them, sometimes," said Lord Henry.



"I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane."



"You could not have helped telling me, Dorian. All through your life you

will tell me everything you do."



"Yes, Harry, I believe that is true. I cannot help telling you things.

You have a curious influence over me. If I ever did a crime, I would

come and confess it to you. You would understand me."



"People like you--the wilful sunbeams of life--don't commit crimes,

Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. And now

tell me--reach me the matches, like a good boy: thanks:--what are your

actual relations with Sibyl Vane?"



Dorian Gray leaped to his feet, with flushed cheeks and burning eyes.

"Harry! Sibyl Vane is sacred!"



"It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian," said

Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice. "But why should

you be annoyed? I suppose she will belong to you some day. When one is

in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends

by deceiving others. That is what the world calls a romance. You know

her, at any rate, I suppose?"



"Of course I know her. On the first night I was at the theatre, the

horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over, and

offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. I was

furious with him, and told him that Juliet had been dead for hundreds of

years, and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in Verona. I think,

from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the impression that

I had taken too much champagne, or something."



"I am not surprised."



"Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers. I told him I

never even read them. He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and

confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy

against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought."



"I should not wonder if he was quite right there. But, on the other

hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all

expensive."



"Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means," laughed Dorian.

"By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre,

and I had to go. He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly

recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I arrived at the

place again. When he saw me he made me a low bow, and assured me that I

was a munificent patron of art. He was a most offensive brute, though he

had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare. He told me once, with an

air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to 'The

Bard,' as he insisted on calling him. He seemed to think it a

distinction."



"It was a distinction, my dear Dorian--a great distinction. Most people

become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of

life. To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour. But when did

you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?"



"The third night. She had been playing Rosalind. I could not help going

round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me; at least

I fancied that she had. The old Jew was persistent. He seemed determined

to take me behind, so I consented. It was curious my not wanting to know

her, wasn't it?"



"No; I don't think so."



"My dear Harry, why?"



"I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the girl."



"Sibyl? Oh, she was so shy, and so gentle. There is something of a child

about her. Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what

I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her

power. I think we were both rather nervous. The old Jew stood grinning

at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about

us both, while we stood looking at each other like children. He would

insist on calling me 'My Lord,' so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not

anything of the kind. She said quite simply to me, 'You look more like a

prince. I must call you Prince Charming.'"



"Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments."



"You don't understand her, Harry. She regarded me merely as a person in

a play. She knows nothing of life. She lives with her mother, a faded

tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta

dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen better

days."



"I know that look. It depresses me," murmured Lord Henry, examining his

rings.



"The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest

me."



"You were quite right. There is always something infinitely mean about

other people's tragedies."



"Sibyl is the only thing I care about. What is it to me where she came

from? From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and

entirely divine. Every night of my life I go to see her act, and every

night she is more marvellous."



"That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now. I

thought you must have some curious romance on hand. You have; but it is

not quite what I expected."



"My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have

been to the Opera with you several times," said Dorian, opening his blue

eyes in wonder.



"You always come dreadfully late."



"Well, I can't help going to see Sibyl play," he cried, "even if it is

only for a single act. I get hungry for her presence; and when I think

of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I

am filled with awe."



"You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can't you?"



He shook his head. "To-night she is Imogen," he answered, "and to-morrow

night she will be Juliet."



"When is she Sibyl Vane?"



"Never."



"I congratulate you."



"How horrid you are! She is all the great heroines of the world in one.

She is more than an individual. You laugh, but I tell you she has

genius. I love her, and I must make her love me. You, who know all the

secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to

make Romeo jealous. I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our

laughter, and grow sad. I want a breath of our passion to stir their

dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. My God, Harry,

how I worship her!" He was walking up and down the room as he spoke.

Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks. He was terribly excited.



Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure. How different he

was now from the shy, frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward's

studio! His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of

scarlet flame. Out of its secret hiding-place had crept his Soul, and

Desire had come to meet it on the way.



"And what do you propose to do?" said Lord Henry, at last.



"I want you and Basil to come with me some night and see her act. I have

not the slightest fear of the result. You are certain to acknowledge her

genius. Then we must get her out of the Jew's hands. She is bound to him

for three years--at least for two years and eight months--from the

present time. I shall have to pay him something, of course. When all

that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and bring her out

properly. She will make the world as mad as she has made me."



"That would be impossible, my dear boy?"



"Yes, she will. She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in her,

but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it is

personalities, not principles, that move the age."



"Well, what night shall we go?"



"Let me see. To-day is Tuesday. Let us fix to-morrow. She plays Juliet

to-morrow."



"All right. The Bristol at eight o'clock; and I will get Basil."



"Not eight, Harry, please. Half-past six. We must be there before the

curtain rises. You must see her in the first act, where she meets

Romeo."



"Half-past six! What an hour! It will be like having a meat-tea, or

reading an English novel. It must be seven. No gentleman dines before

seven. Shall you see Basil between this and then? Or shall I write to

him?"



"Dear Basil! I have not laid eyes on him for a week. It is rather horrid

of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful frame,

specially designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous of the

picture for being a whole month younger than I am, I must admit that I

delight in it. Perhaps you had better write to him. I don't want to see

him alone. He says things that annoy me. He gives me good advice."



Lord Henry smiled. "People are very fond of giving away what they need

most themselves. It is what I call the depth of generosity."



"Oh, Basil is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit

of a Philistine. Since I have known you, Harry, I have discovered that."



"Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his

work. The consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his

prejudices, his principles, and his common-sense. The only artists I

have ever known, who are personally delightful, are bad artists. Good

artists exist simply in what they make, and consequently are perfectly

uninteresting in what they are. A great poet, a really great poet, is

the most unpoetical of all creatures. But inferior poets are absolutely

fascinating. The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look.

The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a

man quite irresistible. He lives the poetry that he cannot write. The

others write the poetry that they dare not realise."



"I wonder is that really so, Harry?" said Dorian Gray, putting some

perfume on his handkerchief out of a large gold-topped bottle that stood

on the table. "It must be, if you say it. And now I am off. Imogen is

waiting for me. Don't forget about to-morrow. Good-bye."



As he left the room, Lord Henry's heavy eyelids drooped, and he began to

think. Certainly few people had ever interested him so much as Dorian

Gray, and yet the lad's mad adoration of some one else caused him not

the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy. He was pleased by it. It

made him a more interesting study. He had been always enthralled by the

methods of natural science, but the ordinary subject-matter of that

science had seemed to him trivial and of no import. And so he had begun

by vivisecting himself, as he had ended by vivisecting others. Human

life--that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating. Compared

to it there was nothing else of any value. It was true that as one

watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one could not

wear over one's face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous fumes from

troubling the brain, and making the imagination turbid with monstrous

fancies and misshapen dreams. There were poisons so subtle that to know

their properties one had to sicken of them. There were maladies so

strange that one had to pass through them if one sought to understand

their nature. And, yet, what a great reward one received! How wonderful

the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard logic of

passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect--to observe

where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in

unison, and at what point they were at discord--there was a delight in

that! What matter what the cost was? One could never pay too high a

price for any sensation.



He was conscious--and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his

brown agate eyes--that it was through certain words of his, musical

words said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray's soul had turned to

this white girl and bowed in worship before her. To a large extent the

lad was his own creation. He had made him premature. That was something.

Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its secrets, but to

the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were revealed before the

veil was drawn away. Sometimes this was the effect of art, and chiefly

of the art of literature, which dealt immediately with the passions and

the intellect. But now and then a complex personality took the place and

assumed the office of art; was indeed, in its way, a real work of art,

Life having its elaborate masterpieces, just as poetry has, or

sculpture, or painting.



Yes, the lad was premature. He was gathering his harvest while it was

yet spring. The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was

becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him. With his

beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at. It

was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end. He was like one

of those gracious figures in a pageant or a play, whose joys seem to be

remote from one, but whose sorrows stir one's sense of beauty, and whose

wounds are like red roses.



Soul and body, body and soul--how mysterious they were! There was

animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of spirituality.

The senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade. Who could say

where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the physical impulse began? How

shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And

yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools!

Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin? Or was the body really

in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought? The separation of spirit from

matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a mystery

also.



He began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so absolute a

science that each little spring of life would be revealed to us. As it

was, we always misunderstood ourselves, and rarely understood others.

Experience was of no ethical value. It was merely the name men gave to

their mistakes. Moralists had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of

warning, had claimed for it a certain ethical efficacy in the formation

of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow

and showed us what to avoid. But there was no motive power in

experience. It was as little of an active cause as conscience itself.

All that it really demonstrated was that our future would be the same as

our past, and that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we would

do many times, and with joy.



It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by

which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and

certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to

promise rich and fruitful results. His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane

was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest. There was no doubt

that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new

experiences; yet it was not a simple but rather a very complex passion.

What there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of boyhood had been

transformed by the workings of the imagination, changed into something

that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from sense, and was for

that very reason all the more dangerous. It was the passions about whose

origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannised most strongly over us. Our

weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious. It often

happened that when we thought we were experimenting on others we were

really experimenting on ourselves.



While Lord Henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to the door,

and his valet entered, and reminded him it was time to dress for dinner.

He got up and looked out into the street. The sunset had smitten into

scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite. The panes glowed

like plates of heated metal. The sky above was like a faded rose. He

thought of his friend's young fiery-coloured life, and wondered how it

was all going to end.
