SALOMÉ



I demand the head of Jokanaan.



HEROD



You are not listening. You are not listening. Suffer me to speak,

Salomé.



SALOMÉ



The head of Jokanaan.



HEROD



No, no, you would not have that. You say that to trouble me,

because I have looked at you all this evening. It is true, I have

looked at you all this evening. Your beauty troubled me. Your

beauty has grievously troubled me, and I have looked at you too

much. But I will look at you no more. Neither at things, nor at

people should one look. Only in mirrors should one look, for

mirrors do but show us masks. Oh! oh! bring wine! I thirst....

Salomé, Salomé, let us be friends. Come now!... Ah! what would I

say? What was't? Ah! I remember!... Salomé--nay, but come nearer

to me; I fear you will not hear me--Salomé, you know my white

peacocks, my beautiful white peacocks, that walk in the garden

between the myrtles and the tall cypress trees. Their beaks are

gilded with gold, and the grains that they eat are gilded with

gold also, and their feet are stained with purple. When they cry

out the rain comes, and the moon shows herself in the heavens

when they spread their tails. Two by two they walk between the

cypress trees and the black myrtles, and each has a slave to tend

it. Sometimes they fly across the trees, and anon they crouch in

the grass, and round the lake. There are not in all the world

birds so wonderful. There is no king in all the world who

possesses such wonderful birds. I am sure that Cæsar himself has

no birds so fair as my birds. I will give you fifty of my

peacocks. They will follow you whithersoever you go, and in the

midst of them you will be like the moon in the midst of a great

white cloud.... I will give them all to you. I have but a

hundred, and in the whole world there is no king who has peacocks

like unto my peacocks. But I will give them all to you. Only you

must loose me from my oath, and must not ask of me that which you

have asked of me.



                        [_He empties the cup of wine._]



SALOMÉ



Give me the head of Jokanaan.



HERODIAS



Well said, my daughter! As for you, you are ridiculous with your

peacocks.



HEROD



Be silent! You cry out always; you cry out like a beast of prey.

You must not. Your voice wearies me. Be silent, I say Salomé,

think of what you are doing. This man comes perchance from God.

He is a holy man. The finger of God has touched him. God has put

into his mouth terrible words. In the palace as in the desert God

is always with him.... At least it is possible. One does not

know. It is possible that God is for him and with him.

Furthermore, if he died some misfortune might happen to me. In

any case, he said that the day he dies a misfortune will happen

to some one. That could only be to me. Remember, I slipped in

blood when I entered. Also, I heard a beating of wings in the

air, a beating of mighty wings. These are very evil omens, and

there were others. I am sure there were others though I did not

see them. Well, Salomé, you do not wish a misfortune to happen to

me? You do not wish that. Listen to me, then.



SALOMÉ



Give me the head of Jokanaan.



HEROD



Ah! you are not listening to me. Be calm. I--I am calm. I am

quite calm. Listen. I have jewels hidden in this place--jewels

that your mother even has never seen; jewels that are marvellous.

I have a collar of pearls, set in four rows. They are like unto

moons chained with rays of silver. They are like fifty moons

caught in a golden net. On the ivory of her breast a queen has

worn it. Thou shalt be as fair as a queen when thou wearest it. I

have amethysts of two kinds, one that is black like wine, and one

that is red like wine which has been coloured with water. I have

topazes, yellow as are the eyes of tigers, and topazes that are

pink as the eyes of a wood-pigeon, and green topazes that are as

the eyes of cats. I have opals that burn always, with an icelike

flame, opals that make sad men's minds, and are fearful of the

shadows. I have onyxes like the eyeballs of a dead woman. I have

moonstones that change when the moon changes, and are wan when

they see the sun. I have sapphires big like eggs, and as blue as

blue flowers. The sea wanders within them and the moon comes

never to trouble the blue of their waves. I have chrysolites and

beryls and chrysoprases and rubies. I have sardonyx and hyacinth

stones, and stones of chalcedony, and I will give them all to

you, all, and other things will I add to them. The King of the

Indies has but even now sent me four fans fashioned from the

feathers of parrots, and the King of Numidia a garment of ostrich

feathers. I have a crystal, into which it is not lawful for a

woman to look, nor may young men behold it until they have been

beaten with rods. In a coffer of nacre I have three wondrous

turquoises. He who wears them on his forehead can imagine things

which are not, and he who carries them in his hand can make women

sterile. These are great treasures above all price. They are

treasures without price. But this is not all. In an ebony coffer

I have two cups of amber, that are like apples of gold. If an

enemy pour poison into these cups, they become like an apple of

silver. In a coffer incrusted with amber I have sandals incrusted

with glass. I have mantles that have been brought from the land

of the Seres, and bracelets decked about with carbuncles and with

jade that come from the city of Euphrates.... What desirest thou

more than this, Salomé? Tell me the thing that thou desirest, and

I will give it thee. All that thou askest I will give thee, save

one thing. I will give thee all that is mine, save one life. I

will give thee the mantle of the high priest. I will give thee

the veil of the sanctuary.



THE JEWS



Oh! oh!



SALOMÉ



Give me the head of Jokanaan.



HEROD



[_Sinking back in his seat_]. Let her be given what she asks! Of

a truth she is her mother's child! [_The first Soldier

approaches. Herodias draws from the hand of the Tetrarch the ring

of death and gives it to the Soldier, who straightway bears it to

the Executioner. The Executioner looks scared._] Who has taken my

ring? There was a ring on my right hand. Who has drunk my wine?

There was wine in my cup. It was full of wine. Someone has drunk

it! Oh! surely some evil will befall some one. [_The Executioner

goes down into the cistern._] Ah! Wherefore did I give my oath?

Kings ought never to pledge their word. If they keep it not, it

is terrible, and if they keep it, it is terrible also.



HERODIAS



My daughter has done well.



HEROD



I am sure that some misfortune will happen.



SALOMÉ



[_She leans over the cistern and listens._]



There is no sound. I hear nothing. Why does he not cry out, this

man? Ah! if any man sought to kill me, I would cry out, I would

struggle, I would not suffer.... Strike, strike, Naaman, strike,

I tell you.... No, I hear nothing. There is a silence, a terrible

silence. Ah! something has fallen upon the ground. I heard

something fall. It is the sword of the headsman. He is afraid,

this slave. He has let his sword fall. He dare not kill him. He

is a coward, this slave! Let soldiers be sent. [_She sees the

Page of Herodias and addresses him._] Come hither, thou wert the

friend of him who is dead, is it not so? Well, I tell thee, there

are not dead men enough. Go to the soldiers and bid them go down

and bring me the thing I ask, the thing the Tetrarch has promised

me, the thing that is mine. [_The Page recoils. She turns to the

soldiers._] Hither, ye soldiers. Get ye down into this cistern

and bring me the head of this man. [_The Soldiers recoil._]

Tetrarch, Tetrarch, command your soldiers that they bring me the

head of Jokanaan.



[_A huge black arm, the arm of the Executioner, comes forth from

the cistern, bearing on a silver shield the head of Jokanaan.

Salomé seizes it. Herod hides his face with his cloak. Herodias

smiles and fans herself. The Nazarenes fall on their knees and

begin to pray._]



Ah! thou wouldst not suffer me to kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan. Well!

I will kiss it now. I will bite it with my teeth as one bites a

ripe fruit. Yes, I will kiss thy mouth, Jokanaan. I said it; did

I not say it? I said it. Ah! I will kiss it now.... But,

wherefore dost thou not look at me, Jokanaan? Thine eyes that

were so terrible, so full of rage and scorn, are shut now.

Wherefore are they shut? Open thine eyes! Lift up thine eyelids,

Jokanaan! Wherefore dost thou not look at me? Art thou afraid of

me, Jokanaan, that thou wilt not look at me?... And thy tongue,

that was like a red snake darting poison, it moves no more, it

says nothing now, Jokanaan, that scarlet viper that spat its

venom upon me. It is strange, is it not? How is it that the red

viper stirs no longer?... Thou wouldst have none of me, Jokanaan.

Thou didst reject me. Thou didst speak evil words against me.

Thou didst treat me as a harlot, as a wanton, me, Salomé,

daughter of Herodias, Princess of Judæa! Well, Jokanaan, I still

live, but thou, thou art dead, and thy head belongs to me. I can

do with it what I will. I can throw it to the dogs and to the

birds of the air. That which the dogs leave, the birds of the air

shall devour.... Ah, Jokanaan, Jokanaan, thou wert the only man

that I have loved. All other men are hateful to me. But thou,

thou wert beautiful! Thy body was a column of ivory set on a

silver socket. It was a garden full of doves and of silver

lilies. It was a tower of silver decked with shields of ivory.

There was nothing in the world so white as thy body. There was

nothing in the world so black as thy hair. In the whole world

there was nothing so red as thy mouth. Thy voice was a censer

that scattered strange perfumes, and when I looked on thee I

heard a strange music. Ah! wherefore didst thou not look at me,

Jokanaan? Behind thine hands and thy curses thou didst hide thy

face. Thou didst put upon thine eyes the covering of him who

would see his God. Well, thou hast seen thy God, Jokanaan, but

me, me, thou didst never see. If thou hadst seen me thou wouldst

have loved me. I, I saw thee, Jokanaan, and I loved thee. Oh, how

I loved thee! I love thee yet, Jokanaan, I love thee only.... I

am athirst for thy beauty; I am hungry for thy body; and neither

wine nor fruits can appease my desire. What shall I do now,

Jokanaan? Neither the floods nor the great waters can quench my

passion. I was a princess, and thou didst scorn me. I was a

virgin, and thou didst take my virginity from me. I was chaste,

and thou didst fill my veins with fire.... Ah! ah! wherefore

didst thou not look at me, Jokanaan? If thou hadst looked at me

thou hadst loved me. Well I know that thou wouldst have loved me,

and the mystery of love is greater than the mystery of death.

Love only should one consider.


