At half-past twelve next day Lord Henry Wotton strolled from Curzon

Street over to the Albany to call on his uncle, Lord Fermor, a genial if

somewhat rough-mannered old bachelor, whom the outside world called

selfish because it derived no particular benefit from him, but who was

considered generous by Society as he fed the people who amused him. His

father had been our ambassador at Madrid when Isabella was young, and

Prim unthought of, but had retired from the Diplomatic Service in a

capricious moment of annoyance at not being offered the Embassy at

Paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by

reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his despatches,

and his inordinate passion for pleasure. The son, who had been his

father's secretary, had resigned along with his chief, somewhat

foolishly as was thought at the time, and on succeeding some months

later to the title, had set himself to the serious study of the great

aristocratic art of doing absolutely nothing. He had two large town

houses, but preferred to live in chambers, as it was less trouble, and

took most of his meals at his club. He paid some attention to the

management of his collieries in the Midland counties, excusing himself

for this taint of industry on the ground that the one advantage of

having coal was that it enabled a gentleman to afford the decency of

burning wood on his own hearth. In politics he was a Tory, except when

the Tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them

for being a pack of Radicals. He was a hero to his valet, who bullied

him, and a terror to most of his relations, whom he bullied in turn.

Only England could have produced him, and he always said that the

country was going to the dogs. His principles were out of date, but

there was a good deal to be said for his prejudices.



When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough

shooting coat, smoking a cheroot, and grumbling over _The Times_. "Well,

Harry," said the old gentleman, "what brings you out so early? I thought

you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till five."



"Pure family affection, I assure you, Uncle George. I want to get

something out of you."



"Money, I suppose," said Lord Fermor, making a wry face. "Well, sit down

and tell me all about it. Young people, nowadays, imagine that money is

everything."



"Yes," murmured Lord Henry, settling his buttonhole in his coat; "and

when they grow older they know it. But I don't want money. It is only

people who pay their bills who want that, Uncle George, and I never pay

mine. Credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly

upon it. Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor's tradesmen, and

consequently they never bother me. What I want is information; not

useful information, of course; useless information."



"Well, I can tell you anything that is in an English Blue-book, Harry,

although those fellows nowadays write a lot of nonsense. When I was in

the Diplomatic, things were much better. But I hear they let them in now

by examination. What can you expect? Examinations, sir, are pure humbug

from beginning to end. If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough,

and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him."



"Mr. Dorian Gray does not belong to Blue-books, Uncle George," said Lord

Henry, languidly.



"Mr. Dorian Gray? Who is he?" asked Lord Fermor, knitting his bushy

white eyebrows.



"That is what I have come to learn, Uncle George. Or rather, I know who

he is. He is the last Lord Kelso's grandson. His mother was a Devereux;

Lady Margaret Devereux. I want you to tell me about his mother. What was

she like? Whom did she marry? You have known nearly everybody in your

time, so you might have known her. I am very much interested in Mr. Gray

at present. I have only just met him."



"Kelso's grandson!" echoed the old gentleman.--"Kelso's grandson!... Of

course.... I knew his mother intimately. I believe I was at her

christening. She was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, Margaret

Devereux; and made all the men frantic by running away with a penniless

young fellow; a mere nobody, sir, a subaltern in a foot regiment, or

something of that kind. Certainly. I remember the whole thing as if it

happened yesterday. The poor chap was killed in a duel at Spa, a few

months after the marriage. There was an ugly story about it. They said

Kelso got some rascally adventurer, some Belgian brute, to insult his

son-in-law in public; paid him, sir, to do it, paid him; and that the

fellow spitted his man as if he had been a pigeon. The thing was hushed

up, but, egad, Kelso ate his chop alone at the club for some time

afterwards. He brought his daughter back with him, I was told, and she

never spoke to him again. Oh, yes; it was a bad business. The girl died

too; died within a year. So she left a son, did she? I had forgotten

that. What sort of boy is he? If he is like his mother he must be a

good-looking chap."



"He is very good-looking," assented Lord Henry.



"I hope he will fall into proper hands," continued the old man. "He

should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing

by him. His mother had money too. All the Selby property came to her,

through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a mean

dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I was

ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble who was

always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made quite a

story of it. I didn't dare to show my face at Court for a month. I hope

he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies."



"I don't know," answered Lord Henry. "I fancy that the boy will be well

off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And...

his mother was very beautiful?"



"Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw, Harry.

What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could

understand. She could have married anybody she chose. Carlington was mad

after her. She was romantic, though. All the women of that family were.

The men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful. Carlington

went on his knees to her. Told me so himself. She laughed at him, and

there wasn't a girl in London at the time who wasn't after him. And by

the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your

father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an American? Ain't

English girls good enough for him?"



"It is rather fashionable to marry Americans just now, Uncle George."



"I'll back English women against the world, Harry," said Lord Fermor,

striking the table with his fist.



"The betting is on the Americans."



"They don't last, I am told," muttered his uncle.



"A long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a

steeplechase. They take things flying. I don't think Dartmoor has a

chance."



"Who are her people?" grumbled the old gentleman. "Has she got any?"



Lord Henry shook his head. "American girls are as clever at concealing

their parents as English women are at concealing their past," he said,

rising to go.



"They are pork-packers, I suppose?"



"I hope so, Uncle George, for Dartmoor's sake. I am told that

pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in America, after

politics."



"Is she pretty?"



"She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the

secret of their charm."



"Why can't these American women stay in their own country? They are

always telling us that it is the Paradise for women."



"It is. That is the reason why, like Eve, they are so excessively

anxious to get out of it," said Lord Henry. "Good-bye, Uncle George. I

shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the

information I wanted. I always like to know everything about my new

friends, and nothing about my old ones."



"Where are you lunching, Harry?"



"At Aunt Agatha's. I have asked myself and Mr. Gray. He is her latest

_protégé_."



"Humph! tell your Aunt Agatha, Harry, not to bother me any more with her

charity appeals. I am sick of them. Why, the good woman thinks that I

have nothing to do but to write cheques for her silly fads."



"All right, Uncle George, I'll tell her, but it won't have any effect.

Philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity. It is their

distinguishing characteristic."



The old gentleman growled approvingly, and rang the bell for his

servant. Lord Henry passed up the low arcade into Burlington Street, and

turned his steps in the direction of Berkeley Square.



So that was the story of Dorian Gray's parentage. Crudely as it had been

told to him, it had yet stirred him by its suggestion of a strange,

almost modern romance. A beautiful woman risking everything for a mad

passion. A few wild weeks of happiness cut short by a hideous,

treacherous crime. Months of voiceless agony, and then a child born in

pain. The mother snatched away by death, the boy left to solitude and

the tyranny of an old and loveless man. Yes; it was an interesting

background. It posed the lad, made him more perfect as it were. Behind

every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic. Worlds

had to be in travail, that the meanest flower might blow.... And how

charming he had been at dinner the night before, as, with startled eyes

and lips parted in frightened pleasure, he had sat opposite to him at

the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer rose the wakening

wonder of his face. Talking to him was like playing upon an exquisite

violin. He answered to every touch and thrill of the bow.... There was

something terribly enthralling in the exercise of influence. No other

activity was like it. To project one's soul into some gracious form, and

let it tarry there for a moment; to hear one's own intellectual views

echoed back to one with all the added music of passion and youth; to

convey one's temperament into another as though it were a subtle fluid

or a strange perfume; there was a real joy in that--perhaps the most

satisfying joy left to us in an age so limited and vulgar as our own, an

age grossly carnal in its pleasures, and grossly common in its aims....

He was a marvellous type, too, this lad, whom by so curious a chance he

had met in Basil's studio; or could be fashioned into a marvellous type,

at any rate. Grace was his, and the white purity of boyhood, and beauty

such as old Greek marbles kept for us. There was nothing that one could

not do with him. He could be made a Titan or a toy. What a pity it was

that such beauty was destined to fade!... And Basil? From a

psychological point of view, how interesting he was! The new manner in

art, the fresh mode of looking at life, suggested so strangely by the

merely visible presence of one who was unconscious of it all; the silent

spirit that dwelt in dim woodland, and walked unseen in open field,

suddenly showing herself, Dryad-like and not afraid, because in his soul

who sought for her there had been wakened that wonderful vision to

which alone are wonderful things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns

of things becoming, as it were, refined, and gaining a kind of

symbolical value, as though they were themselves patterns of some other

and more perfect form whose shadow they made real: how strange it all

was! He remembered something like it in history. Was it not Plato, that

artist in thought, who had first analysed it? Was it not Buonarotti who

had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence? But in our

own century it was strange.... Yes; he would try to be to Dorian Gray

what, without knowing it, the lad was to the painter who had fashioned

the wonderful portrait. He would seek to dominate him--had already,

indeed, half done so. He would make that wonderful spirit his own. There

was something fascinating in this son of Love and Death.



Suddenly he stopped, and glanced up at the houses. He found that he had

passed his aunt's some distance, and, smiling to himself, turned back.

When he entered the somewhat sombre hall the butler told him that they

had gone in to lunch. He gave one of the footmen his hat and stick, and

passed into the dining-room.



"Late as usual, Harry," cried his aunt, shaking her head at him.



He invented a facile excuse, and having taken the vacant seat next to

her, looked round to see who was there. Dorian bowed to him shyly from

the end of the table, a flush of pleasure stealing into his cheek.

Opposite was the Duchess of Harley; a lady of admirable good-nature and

good temper, much liked by everyone who knew her, and of those ample

architectural proportions that in women who are not Duchesses are

described by contemporary historians as stoutness. Next to her sat, on

her right, Sir Thomas Burdon, a Radical member of Parliament, who

followed his leader in public life, and in private life followed the

best cooks, dining with the Tories, and thinking with the Liberals, in

accordance with a wise and well-known rule. The post on her left was

occupied by Mr. Erskine of Treadley, an old gentleman of considerable

charm and culture, who had fallen, however, into bad habits of silence,

having, as he explained once to Lady Agatha, said everything that he had

to say before he was thirty. His own neighbour was Mrs. Vandeleur, one

of his aunt's oldest friends, a perfect saint amongst women, but so

dreadfully dowdy that she reminded one of a badly bound hymn-book.

Fortunately for him she had on the other side Lord Faudel, a most

intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a Ministerial statement

in the House of Commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely

earnest manner which is the one unpardonable error, as he remarked once

himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of

them ever quite escape.



"We are talking about poor Dartmoor, Lord Henry," cried the Duchess,

nodding pleasantly to him across the table. "Do you think he will really

marry this fascinating young person?"



"I believe she has made up her mind to propose to him, Duchess."



"How dreadful!" exclaimed Lady Agatha. "Really, someone should

interfere."


